DOI;Title;Abstract;Exclusion_Criteria;Tema a tratar;Categorización;Falsos positivos;ojo con este;Categories;AbstractORArticle;Categories_RQ1;Categories_RQ2;Categories_RQ3;Categories_RQ4
10.4018/979-8-3693-8985-0.ch011;Current advancements in AI-driven education;"With the rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI), smart computing, and high- speed internet, education is undergoing a profound transformation. Learning is no longer confined to traditional classrooms; instead, AI- driven tools are making education more personalized, interactive, and accessible to students worldwide. In an era where global migration, conflicts, and resource shortages pose serious challenges to education, AI offers innovative solutions to bridge learning gaps and ensure that quality education reaches even the most underserved communities. Additionally, today's learners-often referred to as cyber nomads-are growing up surrounded by technology, making it essential to adapt educational methods to their digital-first way of learning. AI is also proving to be a game- changer for students with special needs, such as those with autism, by offering tailored support that traditional systems struggle to provide. This chapter delves into three major areas where AI is reshaping education. First, AI-powered personalized learning systems are revolutionizing how students learn by offering adaptive platforms, AI tutors, and real- time analytics that customize education to fit individual needs. Second, AI- driven content creation and assessment are enhancing the way educational materials are developed, automating lesson planning and grading while integrating interactive experiences like gamification and AR/VR- based learning. Finally, AI- driven administrative and institutional innovations are streamlining operations in schools and universities, making tasks like enrolment, scheduling, and performance tracking more efficient, while also using predictive analytics to help students stay on track. By exploring these advancements, this chapter aligns with the book's goal of highlighting cuttingedge AI applications that are shaping the future of education. It provides insights into how AI is transforming learning at all levels-from kindergarten to higher education-and discusses its potential to create a more inclusive, efficient, and engaging educational experience. This chapter will serve as a valuable resource for educators, administrators, and technology developers looking to harness AI's power to build a smarter, more adaptable learning environment for the next generation. © 2025, IGI Global Scientific Publishing. All rights reserved.";;Trata sobre las aplicaciones de IA de vanguardia que están dando forma al futuro de la educación;IA;VR, AR, GAME, TEA;;AR,classroom,VR;0;VR,AR;classroom;;
10.1089/g4h.2023.0240;The Impact of Virtual Reality Intervention on Emotion Regulation and Executive Functions in Autistic Children;Introduction: Autistic children may encounter difficulties in managing emotions and executive functions (EFs), which can contribute to mental and health challenges. Recognizing physical activities as a potential strategy for enhancing emotion regulation (ER), this study aims to investigate the efficacy of a virtual reality (VR)-based physical exercise program in improving ER and EFs among children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Materials and Methods: Forty boys diagnosed with ASD, aged 7 to 10 years, were randomly assigned to two groups: a VR intervention group (n = 20) and a control group (n = 20). The intervention group participated in a VR program, while the control group solely concentrated on engaging in sedentary and inactive video gaming. EFs were evaluated through the utilization of both the flanker task and the Wisconsin card sorting task, both administered initially at baseline and subsequently after an 8-week interval. In addition, the parents of the children completed the Emotion Regulation Checklist to evaluate their ER skills. Results: According to the results, a significant difference was observed between the two groups in terms of EFs and the ability to regulate emotion (P < 0.05). The intervention group demonstrated a notable improvement in ER skills and exhibited superior executive functioning abilities compared with the control group. Conclusion: It appears that VR exercises can serve as a preliminary trial to enhance EFs and ER in children with autism. In addition, they may prove effective as complementary interventions to traditional educational strategies in preventing future challenges associated with ASD. © 2025, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc., publishers.;;Trata sobre investigar la eficacia de un programa de ejercicio físico basado en realidad virtual (RV) para mejorar la RE y las FE en niños con trastorno del espectro autista (TEA);VR, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1007/s10758-024-09806-6;Game-Based Performance Tasks for Assessing Representational Flexibility of Autistic Adolescents in a Virtual World;In this exploratory study, we designed and validated game-based performance tasks to assess the development of representational flexibility in autistic adolescents through virtual reality (VR)-based training. Representational flexibility, a critical cognitive ability, involves attention switching, generating representations, and recognizing patterns—skills essential for adaptive problem-solving and success in STEM education. Despite the increasing use of VR in educational interventions, limited research has explored dynamic, real-time assessment methods for representational flexibility, particularly for autistic learners. To address this gap, we conducted 71 VR-based training sessions with seven autistic adolescents, implementing a variety of game-based tasks targeting specific subsets of representational flexibility. Using both correlation and regression analyses, we evaluated the predictive validity of these tasks. Findings indicated significant relationships between task performance and representational flexibility subsets, with certain tasks demonstrating strong potential as proxies for dynamic cognitive assessments. The study highlights the viability of game-based performance tasks as an innovative approach to tracking cognitive development in immersive learning environments. Broadly, these findings contribute to advancing inclusive VR-based educational practices and assessment methodologies tailored to the unique needs of neurodiverse learners. © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024.;;Trata sobre la eficacia de un programa de ejercicio físico basado en realidad virtual (RV) para mejorar la Regulación Emocional y las Funciones Ejecutivas en niños con TEA;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1002/jdn.70000;Virtual Reality-Based Attention Prediction Model in Gaming for Autistic Children;Nowadays, virtual reality (VR) has emerged as a successful new therapeutic strategy in a variety of sectors of the health profession, including rehabilitation, the promotion of inpatients' emotional wellness, diagnostics, surgeon training and mental health therapy. This study develops a new model VRAPMG for children with ASD with the following steps that consider 3D gaming. In this work, the face image is considered to evaluate the attention of the children. In the data acquisition, the input face image is converted into a noncoloured image called a greyscale image. The preprocessing phase is carried out with a median filter and Viola–Jones (VJ) algorithm–based face detection is carried out. Then, the improved active shape model (ASM), shape local binary texture (SLBT) and eye position localization–based features are extracted. In the detection phase, DMO and Bi-GRU models are combined to form the hybrid classification model. Then, improved SLF is done, and the output is detected. Depending on the detected emotions, it is determined whether the children are attentive or not via entropy-based attention prediction. © 2025 International Society for Developmental Neuroscience.;;Trata sobre considerar, mediante juegos 3D,  la imagen del rostro de un niño con TEA para evaluar la atención.;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.4018/979-8-3693-7437-5.ch009;The impact of a gamified augmented environment on language skills in students with ASD;This study investigates the impact of a Gamified Augmented Environment (GAE) intervention on language skills in students with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) (N=54). It explores the effects of individual student variables such as age, gender, ASD severity, comorbidity, and language type. Employing a quantitative, exploratory methodology, language skills were assessed using the DiagnosticApp instrument before (pre-test) and after (post-test) the GAE intervention. Findings revealed a significant improvement in language skills post-intervention, particularly in the expansion of vocabulary related to animals and pirates, the theme of the GAE. ASD severity was found to be a significant factor, with students experiencing more severe ASD exhibiting lower scores due to cognitive limitations. Age and gender did not significantly impact scores. Overall, the study highlights the effectiveness of the Gamified Augmented Environment in providing a motivating and immersive experience through augmented reality, thereby enhancing language skills in students through engaging in a pirate adventure. © 2025, IGI Global Scientific Publishing. All rights reserved.;;Trata sobre el impacto de una intervención mediante un juego de Realidad Extendida en las habilidades lingüísticas de estudiantes con Trastorno del Espectro Autista (TEA);GAME, TEA;AR;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1080/17482798.2025.2594476;Parent and clinician perspectives on the ethics of extended reality technologies for neurodivergent children in the U.S.;There has been rapid market growth in recent years for extended reality (XR) technologies (e.g. virtual reality), in part driven by adoption among families with children. There are, however, practical and ethical challenges related to these devices and applications for young people’s learning, leisure, and health. Risks and benefits may be particularly acute for neurodivergent youth, and specifically those with a diagnosis of autism and/or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Mediation theories highlight the importance of both parents and clinicians (e.g. behavioral therapists, speech-language pathologists) in the regulation, management, and supervision of neurodivergent children’s technology use. As such, we conducted two 90-minute focus groups with 12 parents of and clinicians who work with neurodivergent children aged 8–13 to understand how these stakeholders understand XR and its ethical dimensions. Findings indicate both positive and negative attitudes towards hypothetical depictions of child XR use, while recognizing the many factors influencing potential outcomes for the neurodivergent child population. In evaluating the broader XR landscape, participants noted several issues of ethical complexity, including adult responsibility for neurodivergent children’s XR use and unknown XR effects and risks. We discuss our results relative to existing theory and prior work, practical implications, and future research directions. © 2025 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.;;Trata sobre la cuestión de si es seguro y ético utilizar AR en jóvenes con TEA;TEA;AR;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1080/10447318.2025.2594146;Applying Multisensory Dyadic Play with Augmented Reality and Symbolic Representation to Enhance Emotional Awareness and Expression in Autistic Children;Autistic children often experience challenges with emotional self-awareness and expression, limiting their ability to regulate emotions or communicate internal states. Traditional interventions emphasize external behavioral imitation but seldom address internal emotional processing. This study developed a three-stage, game-based intervention integrating augmented reality, tangible objects, and vibrotactile feedback to foster emotional awareness. Grounded in metacognitive embodied learning principles, the intervention guided autistic participants through tactile exploration, symbolic scenario construction, and reasoning surrounding emotional transitions. Four autistic participants aged 8–9 took part in a single-subject multiple-baseline design. Evaluation tools included the Social–Emotional Assessment Test, the Behavioral and Emotional Observation Scale, and parent reports across the baseline, intervention, and maintenance phases. Results suggest preliminary improvements in emotional recognition, symbolic vocabulary use, and perspective-taking, with emerging ability to associate bodily sensations with emotional vocabulary. Findings provide preliminary evidence that combining AR with multisensory dyadic play may support emotional competencies in autistic children. © 2025 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.;;Trata sobre el desarrolló una intervención basada en el juego de tres etapas que integra realidad aumentada, objetos tangibles y retroalimentación vibrotáctil para fomentar la conciencia emocional;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1016/j.ijcci.2024.100683;Improved socio-emotional skills in students with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) following an intervention supported by an augmented gamified environment;This study examines the impact of an intervention using an Augmented Gamified Environment (AGE) to stimulate socio-emotional skills in a sample of 54 subjects with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) aged between 3 and 17 years old. The study used a quantitative, exploratory, analytical methodology. Socio-emotional skills were evaluated before and after intervention (pre-posttest) using the DiagnosticApp instrument, supported by a fun app. The study specifically analyzed their ability to identify primary and secondary emotions and emotional states, as well as the cause-effect relationship linked to a context. The results show that socio-emotional skills improved after the intervention, regardless of gender, age, degree of ASD, comorbidity, or type of language. Overall, the greatest improvement was in identifying both primary and secondary emotions through recognizing facial expressions. Additionally, as expected, older students, and those with less severe ASD and more functional language exhibited higher scores in their socio-emotional skills. In conclusion, the extrinsic motivation associated with the mix of game mechanics, dynamics, and aesthetics, along with the augmented reality resources making up the AGE, are key contributing elements in improving these students’ socio-emotional skills. © 2024 The Author(s);;Trata de examinar el impacto de una intervención que utiliza un Entorno Gamificado Aumentado (AGE) para estimular las habilidades socioemocionales en una muestra de 54 sujetos con Trastorno del Espectro Autista (TEA) con edades comprendidas entre los 3 y 17 años;GAME, TEA;AR;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1109/TG.2024.3410163;The Effects of Social Presence on Gaze, Movement, Arousal and Blink Rate in Autism: A Cooperative Virtual Reality Game-Based Approach;Difficulty in social interaction is a key factor in the diagnostic criteria for autism. Although not fully understood, fluid human social interaction demands a complex exchange of verbal and nonverbal signals, which is disrupted in autistic individuals. Differences in gaze behavior, gross motor movement, and physiological responses related to arousal and attention have been observed repeatedly in autistic individuals, potentially impacting social interaction. Our prior work (Simmons et al., 2023) uses a fully immersive virtual reality video game custom-designed to examine the role of social presence through solo and cooperative versions of the game. We predicted that the inclusion of a virtual presence would impact the temporal execution of gaze behaviors and gross motor movements, as well as modulate physiological arousal and blink rate in autistic individuals differently than nonautistic controls. We found that the cooperative condition produced a larger number of differences in gaze behaviors and gross motor movements for autistic individuals. In addition, arousal and blink rate displayed differences during the cooperative condition. These findings demonstrate the specific effects of a virtual social presence on fundamental behaviors that comprise social interaction and can be measured and eventually manipulated in virtual reality. © 2024 IEEE.;;Trata de examinar la iteracción social de una persona con TEA;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,motion capture,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking,motion capture
10.1016/j.humov.2024.103254;Characterization of bilateral reaching development using augmented reality games;Bilateral coordination is commonly impaired in neurodevelopmental conditions including cerebral palsy, developmental coordination disorder, and autism spectrum disorder. However, we lack objective clinical assessments that can quantify bilateral coordination in a clinically feasible manner and determine age-based norms to identify impairments. The objective of this study was to use augmented reality and computer vision to characterize bilateral reaching abilities in typically developing children. Typically developing children (n = 133) ages 6–17 years completed symmetric and asymmetric bilateral reaching tasks in an augmented reality game environment. We analyzed the number of target pairs they could reach in 50 s as well as the time lag between their hands reaching the targets. We found that performance on both tasks developed in parallel, with development slowing but not plateauing after age 12. Children performed better on the symmetric task than asymmetric, both in targets reached and with shorter hand lags. Variability between children in hand lag decreased with age. We also found gender differences with females outperforming males, which were most pronounced in the 10–11 year olds. Overall, this study demonstrates parallel development through childhood and adolescence of symmetric and asymmetric reaching abilities. Furthermore, it demonstrates the ability to quantify bilateral coordination using computer vision and augmented reality, which can be applied to assess clinical populations. © 2024 Elsevier B.V.;;Trata de utilizar realidad aumentada y visión artificial para caracterizar las capacidades de alcance bilateral en niños con desarrollo típico;AR;GAME, TEA;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1016/j.bspc.2024.106288;Analyzing lower body movements using machine learning to classify autistic children;Autism spectrum disorder is a neurological disorder that affects children at an early age and its symptoms appear in varying degrees. Early detection of ASD and follow-up of treatment by specialists help improve autistic people's lives and reduce the symptoms they suffer from. In the past few years, a group of studies conducted gait analysis to diagnose children with autism, and although the results of these studies showed weak motor skills of Autism Spectrum Disorder children (ASD) compared to their peers of Typically Developing children (TD), there are some challenges facing researchers in this field. The first is the ability to create A safe, effective, friendly environment that reduces tension in ASD children and helps classify children into ASD/TD effectively. And the second is the ability to create an automated ASD diagnosis system. In this work, a system based on machine learning and augmented reality technology has been proposed to create an effective and friendly interactive environment that helps diagnose ASD and classify children to ASD / TD. The movement of the lower limbs of 15 ASD children and 15 TD children are tracked via a marker-less technique through a Kinect v2 sensor when playing a specific game based on kicking the ball task, that is using augmented reality technology. Then the kinematics features are extracted through Linear Discriminant Analysis technology. To determine these features' ability in the classification process, three machine learning algorithms are used, namely Support Vector Machine, Linear Discriminant Analysis, and Decision Tree. The results showed that the obtained kinematics features can classify children into ASD/TD, where the Support Vector Machine classifier obtained a high accuracy of 96.7% with sensitivity equal to 93.3% and specificity equal to 100%. In addition, the Linear Discriminant Analysis classifier obtained less accuracy of 93.3% with sensitivity equal to 93.3% and specificity equal to 93.3% compared with the Support Vector Machine classifier. Where the Decision Tree classifier obtained the lowest accuracy of 80.0% with sensitivity equal to 73.3% and specificity equal to 86.7% compared with the Support Vector Machine and Linear Discriminant Analysis classifiers. In addition to that, when using Linear Discriminant Analysis to reduce dimensions and extract features, the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of the Support Vector Machine classifier were increased and achieved by 100%. Based on these results, it has been proven that the proposed method is effective in classifying children to ASD/TD. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd;;Trata de detectar el TEA precozmente mediante AR y con aprendizaje automático;AR, GAME, TEA, IA;;ojo con este;AR,motion capture;0;AR;;;motion capture
10.1007/s10639-023-12319-x;Communicative competence in students with ASD: Interaction and immersion in a Gamified Augmented Environment;Active methodologies such as gamification, combined with emerging technologies like augmented reality, are enhancing learning environments that facilitate the development of essential competencies. Particularly, students with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) require reinforcement of their Communicative Competence (CC) to activate their abilities to communicate effectively in different contexts, and interventions supported by this type of methodology and resources can contribute to this goal. The aim of this study is to analyse the contribution of an Augmented Gamified Environment to the development of CC in a sample of 54 subjects diagnosed in public Special Education centres. Correlational methodology is adopted with an exploratory and analytical approach. Individualized intervention sought to relate students' level of interaction and immersion in the environment's narrative to the increase in their CC. Their degree of autonomy when interacting with the tablet and immersion in the game was measured using observation-based instruments with categories that allowed for subsequent statistical analysis. Additionally, the influence of gender, age, severity of ASD, comorbidities, and type of language on the level of competence achieved was contrasted. The results show that engagement in mission execution favoured their CC. It was observed that the higher the immersion in the challenges, the higher the CC of the students. Specifically, older students with less severe ASD, functional oral language, and no comorbidity exhibited higher levels of CC. In conclusion, intervention for optimal results must be tailored to individual characteristics, present engaging narratives, and integrate playful activities that require communicative strategies. © The Author(s) 2023.;;Trata de analizar la contribución de un Entorno Gamificado Aumentado (AGE) al desarrollo de la Competencias Comunicativas en una muestra de 54 sujetos diagnosticados;GAME, TEA;AR;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1007/s10803-023-05975-y;Time-Based and Event-Based Prospective Memory in Adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder: A Virtual Week Investigation;Purpose: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex developmental condition including persistent challenges with social communication, restricted interests, and repetitive behavior. Though prospective memory failures are commonly observed in ASD population it has been less studied among adults with ASD. Prospective memory (PM) refers to the execution of delayed intentions. There are contradictory findings of regular and irregular prospective memory task among autistic adults. The present study is an attempt to investigate prospective memory performance among adults with autism spectrum disorder using the Virtual Week board game. Method: Virtual Week (Rendell & Craik, 2000) (3-day Version) is a computerized board game in which participants after rolling a die move token clockwise around the board. Each round of the board represents one virtual “day.” Adults between 16 and 25 years of age who were diagnosed with ASD (N = 23) were compared with non-ASD (N = 26) adults. Results: Analyses of variance were used to analyze the data. Results revealed that autistic adults as compared to normal adults showed poorer performance on time-based task than on event-based task. A significant difference was evident between regular and irregular prospective memory tasks across both tasks among autistic adults. Results also revealed that ASD difficulties are associated with the prospective component of the irregular task. Conclusions: Prospective memory failures are widely observed in ASD group, and have important implications for functional independence. The findings of this study provide insight into prospective memory challenges that adults with autism spectrum disorder face in a daily basis. © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023.;;Trata de investigar el rendimiento de la memoria prospectiva entre adultos con TEA utilizando el juego de mesa Virtual Week;TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1063/5.0205764;Integrating of Augmented Reality and Sensor Technologies For Autism Spectrum Disorder Therapies;Among various technological advances today, one of them is IoT (Internet of Things) which has been widely used in everyday life. IoT can make everything around us connected to the internet. At the same time, Augmented Reality is a technology that can combine three-dimensional virtual objects into the environment or the real world so that these objects appear more authentic. The two technologies can be integrated, which will then be applied in the game for autistic child therapy. The IoT-based technology used in this study is RFID (Radio Frequency Identification). Utilizing the RFID card, which will later be modified into a picture card in the game for autistic child therapy, is expected to help autistic children train their sensory and motor skills and interact with the characters in the game's three-dimensional form. Based on the results of the overall percentage of the learnability questionnaire, it can be concluded that 87.5% of respondents strongly agree, the results of the percentage of the overall efficiency questionnaire can be concluded that 84.67% of respondents strongly agree, then on the results of the percentage of the questionnaire memorability overall, it can be concluded that 82.22% of respondents strongly agree and the results of the percentage of satisfaction questionnaires as a whole, it can be concluded that 88.89% of respondents strongly agree. © 2024 American Institute of Physics Inc.. All rights reserved.;;Trata de entrenar habilidades sensoriales y motoras de niños autistas, permitiéndoles interactuar con personajes de un juego lot combinado con AR;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1109/SeGAH61285.2024.10639571;Immersive Virtual Reality Serious Game for Facial Expression Training;Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) frequently encounter difficulties in recognizing and expressing emotions, significantly affecting their ability to engage in social interactions. This study introduces a novel serious game designed to enhance facial emotion recognition and expression skills among individuals with ASD. Utilizing Virtual Reality (VR) technology, the game provides an immersive and interactive environment where participants diagnosed with ASD can safely practice and refine their emotion recognition and expression abilities. Three mini-games comprising identification, manipulation and production of facial expressions were created and incorporated as tasks in our larger immersive serious game TravelTrain. Preliminary evaluation through a pilot test has demonstrated the game's potential, with participants showing positive responses towards its usability and acceptance. These encouraging outcomes suggest that it has the potential to serve as a valuable tool in assisting individuals with ASD to improve their emotional competencies and, consequently, their social interaction skills. © 2024 IEEE.;;Trata de mejorar las habilidades de reconocimiento y expresión de emociones faciales en personas con TEA;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/TLT.2024.3451462;HSVRS: A Virtual Reality System of the Hide-and-Seek Game to Enhance Gaze Fixation Ability for Autistic Children;Numerous children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) exhibit abnormal eye gaze pattern in communication and social interaction. In this study, we aim to investigate the effectiveness of the hide-and-seek virtual reality system (HSVRS) in improving gaze fixation abilities in children with ASD. Our hypothesis is that engaging in a hide-and-seek game within a virtual environment, particularly with a customized avatar resembling a familiar figure, would significantly enhance gaze fixation skills compared to traditional interventions without supplementary virtual reality (VR) intervention. In total, 36 children with ASD were involved in this pilot study in three groups: the avatar customized group, the avatar uncustomized group, and the control group. The control group only received human intervention, while the avatar group received additional VR-assisted interventions. The effect of HSVRS was measured by a six-point Likert subjective questionnaire and demonstrated significant improvements in gaze fixation abilities in the VR-assisted intervention groups compared to the control group (P = 0.006, 0.001). Moreover, the avatar customized group, which interacted with a familiar-looking avatar, obtained noticeable increments in gaze fixation metrics (P = 0.036, 0.005, 0.001). Experimental results show the effectiveness of utilizing VR technology to complement regular interventions in terms of improving gaze fixation abilities for young children with ASD. © 2008-2011 IEEE.;;"Trata de mejorar las capacidades de fijación de la mirada en niños con TEA con un juego virtual ""el escondite""";VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1007/978-3-031-62849-8_27;A Social Communication Support Application for Autistic Children Using Computer Vision and Large Language Models;A novel, affordable and accessible software solution that utilizes computer vision tools and Large Language Models (LLMs) to provide communication support to high functioning autistic children during online meetings with the aim of improving their social communication skills is presented. The system displays the remote attendee’s facial expressions as distinct emoticons to facilitate the child’s understanding of non-verbal social cues and suggests appropriate responses on demand based on the conversational context and the detected expressions. A gamification option for practicing facial expression recognition in an engaging manner is also offered. The application serves as a support platform as well as a teaching tool which autistic children can utilize to connect with friends and caregivers to improve their social communication skills. It is being developed in consultation with therapists who work with autistic children to ensure that its design is compatible with the unique needs of the end users. The system is more cost-effective and sensory friendly as compared to similar robotic and virtual reality-based solutions and has the added advantage that the child converses with a real human being instead of a robot or a virtual agent, thus, increasing the likelihood that the social skills learned would be effectively transferred to co-located face-to-face conversations. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2024.;;Trata de mejorar sus habilidades de comunicación social mediante el uso de visión artificial y Modelos de Lenguaje Extensos (LLMs);TEA;VR, GAME;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1049/PBHE057E;Medical imaging informatics: Machine learning, deep learning and big data analytics;Medical imaging informatics play an important role in the effectiveness of present-day healthcare systems. Advancement of artificial intelligence, big data analytics, and internet of things technologies contribute greatly to various healthcare applications. Artificial intelligence techniques are contributing to improvements with traditionally human-based systems and ensuring that the accuracy of prediction and diagnosis is being continually enhanced. The development of reliable and accurate healthcare models is becoming ever more possible with the help of machine learning and deep learning technologies. Artificial intelligence has the power to solve many complex problems in medical imaging and is a technology that will help to design the future of many healthcare systems. This edited book highlights and addresses various issues in medical imaging and provides viable solutions utilising artificial intelligence and big data tools. This book discusses techniques, algorithms, and tools which help build and develop research practices, platforms, and applications in medical image informatics. Medical image enhancement, big data analytics and artificial intelligence models are discussed with relation to applications in the detection of cancer, autism, allergies and diabetes. The design and development of internet of medical things and virtual reality tools for mental health disorders are also explored. This book is suitable reading for researchers and scientists, in both academia and industry, working in computer science and engineering, machine learning, image processing, and healthcare technologies. Those in aligned professions, such as healthcare practitioners, administrators, designers and developers may also find the subject matter of interest. © The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2024. All rights reserved.;;Trata de analizar técnicas, algoritmos y herramientas que ayudan a construir y desarrollar prácticas de investigación, plataformas y aplicaciones en la informática de imágenes médicas;IA;VR, TEA;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/ICRoM64545.2024.10903545;Virtual Reality Music-Based Game as a Co-Tool to Diagnose Autism in Young Children;Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition that impacts various aspects of life, including motor skills, social interactions, and communication, with symptoms that differ widely among individuals. Early diagnosis is critical, especially in young children, as timely intervention can significantly improve outcomes. This paper presents a novel approach utilizing a music-based virtual reality (VR) game to assist therapists in differentiating children with ASD from their typically developing (TD) peers. A classification model was trained using data collected from 21 TD children and 9 children with ASD, focusing on their actions and movements within the game. The model achieved an accuracy of 93% and a sensitivity of 85%, showcasing the potential of VR games in advancing ASD/TD classification and autism screening. © 2024 IEEE.;;Trata de un juego de realidad virtual (RV) basado en la música para ayudar a los terapeutas a diferenciar a los niños con TEA de sus pares con desarrollo típico (DT);VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,motion capture,VR;0;VR,AR;;;motion capture
10.20372/dcidj.507;Fostering Social Communication for Children with Autism through Augmented Reality Toys;"Purpose: The fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) classified autism spectrum disorder (ASD) as a neurodevelopmental disorder characterised by difficulties with socialisation and communication, and with restricted interests and repetitive behaviour. The wide range of symptom types and severity of the disorder in children with ASD can range from the need for support to the need for substantial support, and sometimes even very substantial support. This paper examines an augmented reality toy application, AR Toys, which supports social communication of children with ASD, and reports on how the application was used in school classrooms. Method: AR Toys was evaluated by seven children in an Autism Centre in Melaka, Malaysia. The analysis focused entirely on observation of the interactions between children and teachers at the school. Results: It was found that AR Toys were able to: (1) motivate children with ASD on adaptive language; (2) model expressive language to identify a child’s emotion; and (3) promote pretend play on learning emotion in classroom activities. This gives children with ASD more opportunities to communicate among peers and interact with teachers at school. Conclusion: Human Computer Interaction (HCI) research using AR technologies shows positive feedback in supporting children with ASD in recognising emotions that facilitate their social communication development, leading to better understanding, communication and engagement between teachers and children. © 2023, Vrije University. All rights reserved.";;Trata de examinar una aplicación de juguetes en realidad aumentada, AR Toys, que apoya la comunicación social de niños con TEA;AR, TEA,GAME;;;AR,classroom,VR;0;VR,AR;classroom;;
10.3390/computers12030055;Design and Prototype Development of Augmented Reality in Reading Learning for Autism;(1) Background: Augmented reality is no less popular than virtual reality. This technology has begun to be used in education fields, one of which is special education. Merging the real and virtual worlds is the advantage of augmented reality. However, it needs special attention in making software for children with special needs, such as children with autism. This paper presents an application prototype by paying attention to the characteristics of autistic individuals according to the Autism Guide, that has existed in previous studies. (2) Method: The method used in the development of this prototype is the Linear Sequential Model. Application development is made using Unity3D, Vuforia, and Adobe Illustrator by considering accessibility and other conveniences for developers. (3) Results: The prototype was developed with reference to the Autism Guide, then validated by media experts and autistic experts with the results of the assessment obtaining a score of 87.3/100 which is in the “Very Good” category and is suitable for use. (4) Conclusions: The development of a prototype that refers to the characteristics of children with autism needs to be considered so that what will be conveyed can be easily accepted. © 2023 by the authors.;;Trata de desarrollar prototipos mediante AR que hagan referencia a las características específicas de los niños con autismo para que el contenido que se desea transmitir sea aceptado;AR, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/CoG57401.2023.10333176;Differences in visual-proprioceptive accuracy and visuomotor performance in immersive virtual reality and the physical world: a pilot study;Autistic individuals commonly experience visuomotor integration (VMI) difficulties that impact upper extremity movements such as goal-directed throwing, which commonly exists in everyday activities and movement-based games. Autistic individuals often show superior ability towards visual details and inefficient global visual information processing, leading to incongruent VMI. Virtual reality (VR) provides adequate and accurate eye and hand movement data and allows readily individualized design, making it a good option for VMI assessment and potential game-based VMI intervention for autistic individuals. We conducted a pilot study with eight non-autistic young adults comparing visual-proprioceptive accuracy and VMI in VR and in an equivalent physical environment (PE) using a spatial estimation task and a goal-directed throwing task. We observed reduced visual and visual-proprioceptive accuracy in VR compared to PE. Success rates of throwing were lower in VR, with more gaze scanning of the environment and shorter fixation duration on task-relevant objects. Participants spent a longer time preparing for movement execution and had higher hand velocity at release in VR. Subsequent research will compare visual-proprioceptive accuracy and VMI between VR and PE in autistic individuals and explore their relationship with autistic traits. © 2023 IEEE.;;Trata de observar la VMI en RV y en un entorno físico equivalente (PE) de personas autistas;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,motion capture,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking,motion capture
10.1109/ICCCNT56998.2023.10308029;Development of an Augmented Reality based Joint Attention Training Platform for Autistic Children;Joint Attention (JA) is a major deficit in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Providing an early intervention is crucial as a lack of JA ability affects social communication skills in adult life. With the advent of technology, there has been a lot of development in JA skill training using computers and mixed-reality devices. Augmented Reality (AR) is increasingly being used for healthcare applications due to its ability to provide an interactive and engaging user experience. Currently there has been little exploration of AR as a medium for JA skill training. To address this problem, we have developed an AR based JA training platform using Microsoft Hololens 2 Head Mounted Display (HMD) with an inbuilt eye-tracker. This platform aims to gamify the process of JA skill training. It uses only gaze fixations for interaction, allowing users to practice their gaze-sharing and visual communication abilities. The user's performance is recorded based on the correctness of their gaze response and the duration to register a valid gaze response. To determine the effectiveness of our platform and its feasibility for delivering JA skill training, we have performed a pilot study involving 4 ASD and 4 age-matched neurotypical developing (NT) children. Observations from this feasibility study shows participants diagnosed with ASD took significantly more time to follow a JA cue and register a response as compared to their NT counterparts. This study also shows the acceptance of the AR based JA platform by both the ASD and NT participants to perform JA exercises and provides insights to further develop this platform. © 2023 IEEE.;;Trata de una plataforma con AR para el entrenamiento de la Atención Conjunta (JA) usando eye-tracking;AR, TEA;;importante;AR,eye tracking;0;AR;;;eye tracking
10.1007/978-3-031-26876-2_82;A Serious Game as an Educational Tool to Teach Physics to High Functioning Autism Students;The educational activities combined with the use of modern technology and focused on the field of natural sciences, acquire special interest when directed to students who fall into the spectrum of high-functioning autism. In this light, an educational digital software (serious game) was designed and developed with the aim of assisting the teaching of the basic Elementary Physics concepts and, on the other hand, controlling the assimilation and understanding of students with high-functioning autism spectrum disorder. Our research sample consists of 16 elementary school students of the 5th and 6th grades, eight of whom have a certified diagnosis of high-functioning autism spectrum disorder, while the remaining eight are of typical development. The results of the research revealed that the use of this digital application allows the processing, the visual application, the virtual experimental application, and the addressing of everyday physical issues in a pleasant manner, thus contributing to a better understanding of physics concepts, but also to the prevalence of knowledge on the part of students with ASD, while at the same time contributing to the control of the cognitive level of students by teachers. © 2023, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;;Trata de ayudar, mediante juegos, en la enseñanza de los conceptos básicos de Física de Primaria y, por otro lado, controlar la asimilación y comprensión de los estudiantes con trastorno del espectro autista (TEA) de alto funcionamiento;GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.3390/healthcare10101981;Effects of Augmented Reality Game-Based Cognitive–Motor Training on Restricted and Repetitive Behaviors and Executive Function in Patients with Autism Spectrum Disorder;Restricted and repetitive behaviors (RRBs) and executive dysfunction are widely acknowledged as core features and hallmarks in patients with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). This study aimed to investigate the effects of augmented reality (AR) using motivational games with cognitive–motor exercises on RRBs, executive function (EF), attention, and reaction time in patients with ASD. Twenty-four patients (range from 6 to 18 years) diagnosed with ASD were recruited from local social welfare centers and randomly allocated to the AR game-based cognitive–motor training group (study group) or the conventional cognitive training group (control group). Both groups completed 30 min training sessions, twice a week for four weeks. Outcome measures were conducted before and after the intervention. As a result, improvements were observed in all the subscales of the RRBs in the study group except for self-injurious and ritualistic behavior. Significant improvements were observed in EF and reaction time in the study group, which was significantly higher compared to the control group. With the present findings, we can suggest that cognitive–motor training using AR game-based content generates positive effects on improving executive function reaction time and accuracy of responses and has a limited effect on RRBs in patients with ASD. This can be proposed as a complementary intervention associated with individualized daily management. © 2022 by the authors.;;Trata de investigar los efectos de la realidad aumentada (RA) utilizando juegos motivacionales con ejercicios cognitivo-motores sobre los RRBs, la función ejecutiva (FE), la atención y el tiempo de reacción en pacientes con TEA;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.3390/ijerph191912474;The Use of Binaural Based Spatial Audio in the Reduction of Auditory Hypersensitivity in Autistic Young People;Individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are characterised as experiencing impairments in social-emotional interaction and communication, alongside frequently displaying repetitive behaviours and interests. Further to this, they are often described as experiencing difficulties in processing sensory information, with particular prevalence within the auditory modality. Provoked by common environmental sounds, auditory hypersensitivity can result in self-regulatory fear responses. Rather than a physiological pain reaction, literature suggests that these hypersensitivities are resulting through irrational fear of the sounds. This investigation evaluates the use of binaural based spatial audio as a rendering technique for delivering realistic simulations of averse stimuli within a virtual reality (VR) exposure based computer game intervention for auditory hypersensitivity in autism. Over multiple experimental sessions, 20 autistic participants experiencing auditory hypersensitivity were exposed to either spatial audio or stereo renders of target stimuli during the intervention. Measurements of self-reported emotions displayed significant reductions in associated negative emotional reactions to target stimuli for all participants. However, significant improvements were experienced by those listening to spatial audio simulations. Moreover, tracked voluntary interactions with exposure based game-mechanics increased as the study progressed. Providing further evidence of increased tolerance towards averse auditory stimuli. © 2022 by the authors.;;Trata de evalúa el uso de audio espacial basado en binaural como técnica de renderizado para ofrecer simulaciones realistas de estímulos aversivos dentro de una intervención de juego de computadora basado en la exposición en realidad virtual (RV) para la hipersensibilidad auditiva en el autismo.;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.3390/children9091398;Feasibility of Using Multiplayer Game-Based Dual-Task Training with Augmented Reality and Personal Health Record on Social Skills and Cognitive Function in Children with Autism;The purpose of this preliminary study was to evaluate the feasibility of multiplayer game contents with dual-task exercises using augmented reality (AR) and a personal health record (PHR) system for social skills and cognitive function in children with autism. The present study used a single group pretest–posttest study design with fourteen children diagnosed with autism and aged 6–16 years. The intervention consisted of various game contents designed specifically with cognitive and motor tasks, performed for 30 min per session, twice a week, for three weeks. Outcome measures were conducted before and after the intervention and included social skills and cognitive function. A satisfactory survey was conducted post-intervention to assess the usability of the performed games. As result, statistically significant improvements were observed in all subscales of the social skills and cognitive function expected in two subscales of each measured outcome. Parents and children appreciated the overall game program, and no risk of injury and dizziness were mentioned. This preliminary study found that multiplayer game-based dual-task training using AR and PHR was feasible and has a promising efficacy for children with autism. However, there is the need to conduct a randomized control study with a large sample size. © 2022 by the authors.;;Trata de estudiar la aplicación de la AR con las habilidades sociales y la función cognitiva;AR;GAME,TEA;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1007/s10639-021-10805-8;The use of augmented reality to improve the development of activities of daily living in students with ASD;In today's society, technology plays a fundamental role. More and more activities of daily life are being developed with the help of technology. One of the emerging technologies in recent years is augmented reality, (AR) which generate great benefits por people with disability. These visual technologies provide safe and controlled environments in learning to solve social situations for people with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). For this reason, it is proposed as an objective to analyse the effect of AR as a tool for learning the handwashing process. This research was developed using AR leaving from a quantitative approach, quasi-experimental methodology and pretest–posttest design. The Denver questionnaire was employed to collect data before the intervention and after the end of the intervention. In addition to this, the Onirix application was worked to create the AR environments. In this sense, the experimental group was composed of 6 students diagnosed with ASD (Level I, II, III) who developed activities with the AR application. While the control group was composed of 6 students diagnosed with ASD (level I, II, III) who performed similar activities in the handwashing process with traditional methodologies. The sessions had a duration of 20–30 min over 12 weeks to complete 10 sessions. In addition, a field record was used to leave proof of the children’s behaviour throughout the different sessions. In this way, it was possible to study how the child's behaviour had evolved from the pretest to the end of the intervention (post-test). The results show that there have been improvements in the post-test caused by working with augmented reality in several areas, such as, for example, in eye contact. This is reflected for example in item 3 which has a value of p = 0.005 and which is manifested in that the students due to AR turn towards the therapist when they hear his voice. If the study by Bakhtiarvand (2020) is followed, an improvement in the children's motivation for develop social interaction skills has been found. This is reflected in the fact that a value of p = 0.006 was reached after the intervention with the children who used the AR, having a greater interest in interacting socially. Likewise, Ferreira et al. (2020) note that AR has led to progress in the reaction time of students with ASD. For example, they identify a number or letter faster due to AR. In the opposite direction, are the investigations of Lorenzo et al. (2019) where there have been no improvements due to AR. The possibility of designing an application adapted in real time to the children's needs is considered as a future line of research. © 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.;;Trata de analizar el efecto de la RA como herramienta para el aprendizaje del proceso de lavado de manos para personas con TEA;AR, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1016/j.ijhcs.2021.102734;Design of a toolkit for real-time executive function assessment in custom-made virtual experiences and interventions;Virtual Reality (VR) and other game-like experiences are popular intervention platforms in neurocognitive rehabilitation research. Executive Functions (EF), the cognitive processes that regulate attention and goal-oriented action, are recognized as a domain of concern in several congenital and acquired neurocognitive conditions (e.g.: ADHD, autism, addiction, cognitive decline, traumatic brain injury, and stroke). VR-based simulations of real-world tasks have shown potential for rehabilitation in independent functioning. The custom nature of such projects makes cross-intervention analysis difficult and complicates development of best-practices. We have designed a toolkit for building virtual interactions that can consistently replicate traditional cognitive tests (such as the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task and Multitasking Task) as well as extend to more complex tasks in any virtual context. Analysis of participant performance data between traditional tasks and these VR replications may indicate the toolkit can successfully replicate traditional measures while also extending into more complex contexts. © 2021;;Trata sobre estudiar simulaciones basadas en RV de tareas del mundo real para ayudar a las FE funciones ejecutivas en la rehabilitación de diversas condiciones neurocognitivas ;VR;TEA;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/CVR55417.2022.9967646;Shopping Training to Autistic Children and Adolescents for Enhancing Daily Life Shopping Skills using Virtual Reality and Leap Motion;"The aim of the study is to measure the effectiveness of training children and adolescents with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) by using Virtual Reality (VR). The process is formulated as a game visualizing one of the daily life skills; shopping skills. It allows the user to select the products needed and pay for it, using a Head Mounted Display (HMD) and Leap Motion sensor for more immersion and realistic experience, to help them live more independent life. An existing cafeteria was modeled to be the training environment in virtual reality, and to have a pre and post assessment for results measure. Study participants were 11 children and adolescents recruited with certain criteria. © 2022 IEEE.";;Trata sobre medir la eficacia del entrenamiento de niños y adolescentes con trastorno del espectro autista (TEA) mediante el uso de la realidad virtual (RV);VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1007/978-3-031-08648-9_53;Augmented Reality Game for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder;Games play an important role in the development of children. Especially when it comes to children with special needs like autism, it is important to have a different approach when it comes to learning. Shapes and colours are the most important fundamental skills that help in the recognition of objects around and help with letters and words. Balloon Pop is an application that is designed keeping in mind the requirements of children diagnosed with autism. The paper gives an idea of the user’s needs and requirements and shows how the project solves the problem with augmented reality game design. The goal of the project is to design a game for autistic children that will help them learn the abstract concept of shapes and colours. The Digital game-based learning methodology (DGBL) is used in developing the game. The paper consists of the design rules that have been followed in designing for better interaction along with hardware and software architecture describing the flow of the project. Also, at last, the test and evaluation and 8 users have been done by using the System Usability Scale (SUS) tool. The application has been proven to be helpful for children along with parents/therapists to achieve the goal to make children interact and communicate freely, increase focus, and learn the abstract concepts of shapes and colour easily. © 2022, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;;Trata sobre la teoría de aprendizaje basado en juegos y AR de niños autistas;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1007/978-3-031-05039-8_20;Hoope Project: User-Centered Design Process Applied in the Implementation of Augmented Reality for Children with ASD;In the present investigation, a little-known disciplinary field that integrates aspects of computer science is delved into: HCI human-computer interaction, usability, accessibility, and on the other hand, children with ASD. The scope of the research includes the analysis, design and implementation of software that uses augmented reality in a playful environment with the aim of reinforcing educational aspects of children diagnosed with ASD, it is in a stage of development and research, currently working on a proof of concept through the implementation of a prototype, the previous studies have been worked for a period of 4 years where aspects related to DCU were considered in a particular way, © 2022, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.;;Trata de la investigación que incluye el análisis, diseño e implementación de un software que utiliza realidad aumentada (RA) en un entorno lúdico con el objetivo de reforzar aspectos educativos de niños diagnosticados con TEA;AR, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1007/978-3-031-05654-3_29;Applying Asymmetrical VR Collaborative Games to the Enhancement of Peer Collaboration and Oral Communication in Children with Autism;"Autism is a condition in which children are born with social impairments in social communication, imagination, and empathy, thus, they have difficulty interacting socially with peers or effectively interpreting each other’s intentions to engage in different social content. As a result of these deficits, most children with autism are unable to play cooperatively or effectively interact socially with their peers, which makes them socially isolated and difficult to integrate into the community. In view of this, this study conducted an asymmetric VR collaborative game for children with autism, where children with autism and Typical Development (TD) children participated in a collaborative game in pairs, and both children were required to play the game through peer cooperation and oral communication. A total of 6 participants aged 7–9 years old, including 3 children with high-functioning autism and 3 TD children, were recruited for this study. During the game, social assessments and behavioral observations were conducted by the researcher and the therapist to understand whether the asymmetrical VR collaborative game has an impact on children with autism in building peer cooperation and oral communication skills, in order to achieve outcomes that enhance social communication and trans-personal thinking skills. This study used an asymmetrical VR collaborative game to present the game situation with different viewpoints, which allowed children with autism and TD children to work together to solve the game tasks and levels in a peer-to-peer and oral communication manner. In this game, children with autism were required to interact socially with TD children through an asymmetrical play style, thus, triggering the application of peer cooperation and oral communication skills in children with autism. In this game, the researcher used the micro-behaviors for video coding (MBV) to observe and assess five domains, (1) mutual attention; (2) meaningful conversation; (3) collaboration; (4) proximity; and (5) turn taking. According to the results of this study, children with autism exhibited behavioral orientations in the asymmetrical VR collaborative game that were more oriented toward strengthening trans-personal and empathic abilities than traditional solo play, especially in peer cooperation and oral communication. On this basis, the expectation of this study was that the application of asymmetrical VR collaborative games had different degrees of specificity and implementation advantages for children with autism in terms of social communication, imagination, and empathy skills. Children with autism could learn to grasp the meaning of others’ spoken communication, and thus, develop the concept of peer cooperation during the game, which in turn facilitated their mastery of social skills in all aspects of the theory of the mind. © 2022, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.";;Trata el concepto de Realidad Virtual Asimétrica, una de las tendencias más potentes para forzar la interacción social real entre niños con TEA y niños neurotípicos (TD);VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,points,VR;0;VR,AR;;points;
10.1155/2022/2017975;A Systematic Review on Serious Games in Attention Rehabilitation and Their Effects;"Attention is a basic and main mental task and can play an important role in the functioning of other brain abilities such as intelligence, memory, learning, and perception, and its deficit occurs in 80% of patients with traumatic brain injury. The use of game-based tools for rehabilitation is rapidly expanding. Cognitive rehabilitation via video games is an emerging hot topic in cognitive science. Serious games serve a specific purpose in addition to entertainment. They can be more engaging than exercises since they replace reward and motivation systems with real-world motivations as a complement for rehabilitation activities. This study was aimed at identifying and categorizing serious computer games used for attention rehabilitation and evaluating their effects. Six electronic databases (Scopus, PubMed, ISI, Embase, IEEE, and Cochrane) were searched in August 2021. The search strategy consisted of three main concepts of ""serious game"", ""cognitive deficits"", and ""cognitive rehabilitation"". The inclusion criteria were (1) journal articles, (2) English language, (3) being published in the last 10 years, (4) human participants, and (5) game-based intervention. In the 30 included studies, 22 unique games were utilized for attention rehabilitation. Lumosity (20%), Brain Age (Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training) (10%), and MoHRS (6.66%) were the most common games among the studies. There were (57%) casual, (23%) action, (10%) simulation, and (10%) multiple genres. Of the 47 tools used in the studies, 5 utilized cross-modal oddball attention tasks, 4 utilized game performance, 3 utilized the paced auditory serial additional test (PASAT), and the rest employed other tools. A total of 73 outcome measures were related to attention, 42 measures did not have significant results, 30 were significantly improved, 1 was significantly deteriorated, and 4 articles did not have any specific measures for attention evaluation. Thus, the results revealed the positive effect of serious games on attention. However, issues such as absence of scientific teams, the variety of the disorders that cause defects, the variety of criteria, differences in measurements, lack of long-term follow-up, insufficient RCT studies, and small sample sizes should be considered when designing, developing, and using game-based systems to prevent bias. © 2022 Leila Shahmoradi et al.";;Trata sobre identificar y categorizar los juegos de computadora serios utilizados para la rehabilitación de la atención de pacientes con lesiones cerebrales;GAME;;;AR,rewards;0;AR;;rewards;
10.1504/IJMEI.2022.121131;Virtual reality-based real-time solution for children with learning disabilities and slow learners - An innovative attempt;Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a type of developmental disorder generally characterised by slow learning and impairments in communication and social interactions, accompanied by repetitive behaviour and limited interests. This product is an innovative attempt to support and address this issue by providing a means to assist in diagnosing ASD using telemedicine approach and also to provide an interactive and effective means of learning for children diagnosed with ASD or children with slight learning disabilities. The system features games that have been proven to be effective with children diagnosed with ASD. Virtual reality which is being speculated to be a powerful tool in helping children with learning difficulties has been used to enhance the effectiveness of these games. The concept of dynamic difficulty is also integrated into the game in order to increase or decrease the challenge of each level depending on the performance of the child which further increases the effectiveness of the game. © © 2022 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.;;Trata de abordar el problema de aprendizaje lento y deficiencias en la comunicación e iteracción social, mediante un enfoque de telemedicina para ayudar en el diagnóstico del TEA y proporcionar un medio de aprendizaje interactivo y eficaz para niños diagnosticados o con ligeras dificultades de aprendizaje;VR;GAME, TEA;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1111/1460-6984.12678;The utility of LENA as an indicator of developmental outcomes for young children with autism;"Background: There is growing understanding of the potential benefits of a multi-method approach to accurately capture language skills of children on the autism spectrum. Tools such as Language ENvironment Analysis (LENA) provide an efficient means of capturing and analysing early child vocalizations (CVs) and the language learning environment. While developed to capture whole-day recordings of child language in naturalistic settings, there is potential utility in capturing, but little knowledge about, primary LENA metrics—including CVs and conversational turns (CTs)—and novel metrics, such as vocalization ratios (VRs), sampled in clinical practice settings where children are often seen. Moreover, recent research indicates that the novel VR may offer a broad indicator of children's developmental level, beyond just their language abilities, a hypothesis yet to be investigated in a large sample of children for whom the LENA was designed (i.e., pre-schoolers). Aims: To explore the extent to which primary and novel LENA metrics collected during brief one-to-one clinical interaction was a useful indicator of developmental outcomes for children on the autism spectrum. Methods & Procedures: Participants were recruited as part of an on-going research programme evaluating early intervention outcomes (n = 99; age 14–47 months). Language samples were collected at intake (T1) using the wearable LENA Digital Language Processors during a one-to-one, play-based assessment with a clinician. Direct (Mullen Scales of Early Learning—MSEL) and parent-report (Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales—VABS) measures of verbal and non-verbal skills were also collected at intake (T1) and again at exit (T2), approximately 12 months later. Outcomes & Results: Few correlations were observed between child measures and CVs, a primary LENA metric. The novel VR metric was associated with concurrent direct assessment (MSEL) (and to a lesser extent parent report; VABS) measures of verbal and non-verbal skills, with moderate positive correlations found between VRs and all directly assessed subscale scores. However, VRs did not uniquely contribute to the prediction of child outcomes when baseline skills were also considered. Conclusions & Implications: The novel VR may provide an insight into autistic children's overall development in addition to their language ability, suggesting that even when collected in a short recording format, LENA might be a useful component of a multi-method assessment approach. What this paper adds: What is already known on the subject To accurately capture language skills of children on the autism spectrum, multi-method approaches, including natural language sampling, are recommended. Tools such as LENA provide an efficient means of capturing and analysing naturalistic child language and the language learning environment. What this paper adds to existing knowledge This study demonstrates the potential benefits, and limitations, of using LENA to augment assessment of young children on the autism spectrum. Specifically, LENA provides a complementary, and low burden, method for capturing child language samples. What are the potential or actual clinical implications of this work? Novel metrics, such as the VR, collected during brief clinical interactions might be a useful component of a multi-method assessment approach for children on the autism spectrum. © 2021 Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists";;Trata de explorar hasta qué punto las métricas primarias y novedosas de LENA, recolectadas durante breves interacciones clínicas individuales, son indicadores útiles de los resultados del desarrollo en niños autistas;TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/ECICE52819.2021.9645737;A VR-based Training and Intelligent Assessment System Integrated with Multi-modal Sensing for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder;Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) exhibits social communication and social interaction disorders, and abnormal restrictive and repetitive behaviors. However, symptoms of infants less than 1-year-old are difficult to reliably predict subsequent diagnosis. Patients with mild ASD may not be discovered until school age, because schools have more opportunities for social activities. In addition, the therapist also needs to consider the labor cost. To provide effective treatment, it also needs to consume more resources. The current situation in Taiwan is that outlying islands and remote areas often have insufficient manpower for therapists. If VR technology can be applied, some of the problems may be solved. However, due to the global pandemic, COVID-19, early treatments or group treatments in many countries have been forced to stop. If VR technology can provide interpersonal interaction scenes, the training of ASD children can hardly be affected.This research uses Virtual Reality (VR) technology, combined with wearable multi-model sensing technology, including EEG, eye tracking, heart rate variability (HRV), and breath-sensing strap. Physiological signals and game performance data are collected while users are training, and integrate multiple evaluation scales such as ADOS, SRS, and CBCL. Statistical analysis of these data is performed to classify them through machine learning models to develop a VR assistance system that can be used to evaluate the diagnosis, severity, and social behavior treatment of ASD. This system presents assessment and therapy in a game-oriented way. In addition to enhancing the incentives for users to participate, it provides better training results than traditional training. It is also an effective and convenient tool for the therapist to use during evaluation and training. © 2021 IEEE.;;Trata sobre la detección del TEA en una investigación que utiliza la Realidad Virtual (RV) combinada con tecnología de detección multimodal vestible, que incluye EEG (electroencefalografía), seguimiento ocular, variabilidad de la frecuencia cardíaca (HRV) , una correa de detección de la respiración y machine learning;VR, GAME, TEA, IA;;ojo con este;AR,EEG,eye tracking,VR,physiological;0;VR,AR;;;EEG,eye tracking,physiological
10.1109/TNSRE.2021.3108351;Design of an Interactive Virtual Reality System, InViRS, for Joint Attention Practice in Autistic Children;Many children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) exhibit atypical gaze behaviors related to joint attention, a fundamental social-communication skill. Specifically, children with ASD show differences in the skills of gaze sharing and gaze following. In this work we present a novel virtual reality (VR)-based system, called InViRS, in which children with ASD play games allowing them to practice gaze sharing and gaze following. InViRS has three main design contributions: (i) a closed-loop joint attention paradigm with real-time tracking of the participant's eye gaze and game performance measures, (ii) an assistive feedback mechanism that provides guidance and hints in real time, and (iii) a controller that adaptively changes the avatar's gaze prompts according to the performance measures. Results from a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of InViRS with 9 autistic1 children and 9 typically developing (TD) children offered preliminary support for the feasibility of successful gameplay as well as positive impacts on the targeted skills of gaze sharing and gaze following. © 2001-2011 IEEE.;;Trata de un sistema novedoso basado en realidad virtual (RV), llamado InViRS, en el que los niños con TEA participan en juegos que les permiten practicar habilidades relacionadas con la atención atípica;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1007/s43678-020-00006-6;Distraction in the Emergency department using Virtual reality for INtravenous procedures in Children to Improve comfort (DEVINCI): a pilot pragmatic randomized controlled trial;"Objectives: Intravenous (IV) procedures cause pain and distress in the pediatric emergency department (ED). We studied the feasibility and acceptability of virtual reality distraction for patient comfort during intravenous procedures. Methods: Children were randomized to a control (standard care) or intervention group (standard care + virtual reality). Thresholds for feasibility and acceptability (primary outcomes) were determined through a priori established criteria. The level of procedural pain (principal clinical outcome) and distress, as well as memory of pain at 24 h were collected and reported as medians (Q1, Q3) for each group. Results: 63 patients were enrolled, with a high rate of recruitment (78.8%) and game completion (90.3%). Patients, parents and, healthcare providers reported high satisfaction levels. There were no serious adverse events. Five of the 30 patients (16.7%) exposed to virtual reality reported mild side effects. Self-reported procedural pain (verbal numerical rating scale: 3 (1, 6)/10 vs 3 (1, 5.5)/10, p = 0.75) was similar between groups. Further exploratory clinical measures were reported for the intervention and control groups, respectively: self-rated distress during the procedure (Child Fear Scale: 1 (0, 2)/4 vs 2 (0, 3)/4); distress evaluated by proxy during the procedure (Procedure Behavior Check List: 8 (8, 9)/40 vs 10 (8, 15)/40); memory of pain at 24 h (VNRS: 2 (1, 3)/10 vs 4 (2, 6.5)/10). Conclusion: The addition of virtual reality to standard care is feasible and acceptable for pain and distress management during IV procedures in the pediatric ED. Occasional mild, self-resolving side effects were observed in the intervention group. Self-reported pain during the procedure was similar between groups. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03750578. © 2020, Canadian Association of Emergency Physicians (CAEP)/ Association Canadienne de Médecine d'Urgence (ACMU).";;Trata de estudiar la viabilidad y aceptabilidad de la distracción mediante realidad virtual (RV) para la comodidad del paciente durante los procedimientos intravenosos;VR;GAME;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1080/21622965.2019.1610964;Innovative use of virtual reality in autism spectrum disorder: A case-study;"Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs) are developmental disorders affecting communication and behavior. ASD incidence in the world population is about 1%, with a 4:1 ratio between males and females. In clinical practice, ASDs have been usually treated with cognitive-behavioral approaches, involving a face-to-face interaction with the therapist. Over the last years, virtual reality (VR) has played an important role in neurorehabilitation, even for ASD cognitive treatment. A 16-year-old boy with severe ASD and his caregiver were enrolled in the study. Two different cognitive trainings were administered; first, the boy was submitted to one-month cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT); then, after one month of rest, a combined approach using VR (by means of the BTS-Nirvana System) and CBT was applied. Only the combined approach provided an improvement in attention processes and spatial cognition skills, with a significant reduction of ideomotor stereotypes. According to this experience, the use of VR in addition to CBT could be a useful and promising tool to improve cognitive function in individuals severely affected by ASD. © 2019 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.";;Trata de un estudio del uso de la RV como complemento de la TCC para demostrar que podría ser una herramienta útil y prometedora para mejorar la función cognitiva en personas gravemente afectadas por el TEA;VR, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/FIE44824.2020.9273818;Tracking Representational Flexibility Development through Speech Data Mining;In this work-in-progress research we exploited and investigated a virtual reality (VR) based, flexibility learning environment (FLE) in which adolescents with autism use, customize, and design an assortment of simulation games that represent and exemplify the application of forces and Newton's laws of motion. The simulation/game modeling and making tasks acted as the primers of practicing and assessing representational flexibility in solving the engineering design problems with computational thinking. The participants' participation behaviors and verbal utterances during the intervention sessions have been archived via screen and webcam recordings. The current study findings indicated that two approaches of speech or text data mining, multi-label classification and similarity index, can act as the in-situ performance assessment methods to evaluate the representational flexibility development for engineering design and computational thinking of a heterogeneous learner group. © 2020 IEEE.;;Trata de explotar e investigar un entorno de aprendizaje de flexibilidad (FLE) basado en realidad virtual (RV) en el que adolescentes con autismo utilizan, personalizan y diseñan una variedad de juegos de simulación que representan y ejemplifican la aplicación de fuerzas y las leyes del movimiento de Newton;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,playground,VR;0;VR,AR;playground;;
10.1177/1362361320934214;Short report: Evaluating the safety and usability of head-mounted virtual reality compared to monitor-displayed video for children with autism spectrum disorder;"Virtual reality provides a relatively inexpensive way to learn and repeatedly practice skills in personalized, controlled, and safe computer-generated settings. These systems are increasingly receiving attention as an innovative medium for delivering interventions to children with autism spectrum disorder. Although many virtual reality systems are commercially available and their use is increasing, little is known about the safety and usability of these systems for children with autism spectrum disorder. The aim of this study was a first step in addressing this gap. A convenience sample of 35 children with a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder participated in an immersive head-mounted display virtual reality experience and a control condition (monitor-displayed video). Levels of anxiety and negative effects experienced were not significantly different between the two conditions. Participants reported significantly enhanced spatial presence (p = 0.003; d = 0.3) and naturalness (p = 0.002; d = 0.47) for the head-mounted display–virtual reality condition, and 74% of participants preferred using head-mounted display–virtual reality over monitor-displayed video. These findings provide preliminary evidence to support the safety and usability of head-mounted display–virtual reality for children with autism spectrum disorder. Future studies are needed to replicate the results in a larger sample, a range of virtual reality experiences, and in the context of long-term exposure. Lay abstract: This study investigated the safety and usability of a virtual reality experience for children with autism spectrum disorder in a laboratory setting. In our study, the negative effects of head-mounted display–virtual reality were similar to monitor-displayed video watching. At the same time, the participants indicated that the head-mounted display–virtual reality experience provided improved realism and sense of presence. This study is a first step in understanding the impact of head-mounted display on children with autism spectrum disorder. © The Author(s) 2020.";;Trata sobre  la seguridad y usabilidad de sistemas VR para niños con trastorno del espectro autista (TEA;VR, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.3390/app10092996;SoundFields: A virtual reality game designed to address auditory hypersensitivity in individuals with autism spectrum disorder;Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are characterised as having impairments in social-emotional interaction and communication, alongside displaying repetitive behaviours and interests. Additionally, they can frequently experience difficulties in processing sensory information with particular prevalence in the auditory domain. Often triggered by everyday environmental sounds, auditory hypersensitivity can provoke self-regulatory fear responses such as crying and isolation from sounds. This paper presents SoundFields, an interactive virtual reality game designed to address this area by integrating exposure based therapy techniques into game mechanics and delivering target auditory stimuli to the player rendered via binaural based spatial audio. A pilot study was conductedwith six participants diagnosedwithASDwho displayed hypersensitivity to specific sounds to evaluate the use of SoundFields as a tool to reduce levels of anxiety associated with identified problematic sounds. During the course of the investigation participants played the game weekly over four weeks and all participants actively engaged with the virtual reality (VR) environment and enjoyed playing the game. Following this period, a comparison of pre- and post-study measurements showed a significant decrease in anxiety linked to target auditory stimuli. The study results therefore suggest that SoundFields could be an effective tool for helping individuals with autism manage auditory hypersensitivity. © 2020 by the authors.;;Trata sobre un estudio piloto con seis participantes diagnosticados con TEA que presentaban hipersensibilidad a sonidos específicos para evaluar el uso de SoundFields como herramienta para reducir los niveles de ansiedad. Durante cuatro semanas, los participantes jugaron semanalmente y todos disfrutaron de la experiencia;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1007/978-3-030-53294-9_28;Co-designing a head-mounted display based virtual reality game to teach street-crossing skills to children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder;In this paper, we present a head-mounted display based virtual reality game developed to teach street-crossing skills to children and adolescents diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. The virtual reality street-crossing training game is co-designed with four teachers who work with children diagnosed with autism on a daily basis. The teachers specified a set of requirements for the gamified training application that is described and discussed in this paper alongside the plans for the future itterations. © ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2020.;;Trata de un juego de realidad virtual (RV) basado en visor (HMD) desarrollado para enseñar habilidades de cruce de calles Educación Vial a niños y adolescentes diagnosticados con trastorno del espectro autista (TEA);VR, GAME, TEA;;;VR;0;VR;;;
10.1007/978-3-030-50164-8_31;Mobile augmented reality app for children with autism spectrum disorder (asd) to learn vocabulary (marvoc): From the requirement gathering to its initial evaluation;"The use of different technologies for the intervention of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has increased over the year with the increase in the number of children diagnosed with ASD. In recent years, among the different technologies, the researchers have started to use the augmented reality (AR) to provide the intervention of different skills to children with ASD. The use of AR has many benefits, including ubiquity, minimally work with a camera, among others. Despite several benefits, AR has been underutilized for the vocabulary learning of children with ASD. This paper presents the initial version of the Mobile augmented reality app for children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) to learn vocabulary (MARVoc). The purpose of developing MARVoc is to support teaching staff at the centers based in Doha, Qatar, to provide an interactive learning environment to children with ASD. The requirements of the MARVoc were gathered from two centers for ASD in Doha; two specific use cases were created from which one use case was finalized for the development of MARVoc. The initial version of the MARVoc was developed; the feedback was taken from the staff working at centers for ASD in Doha, and MARVoc was updated. © Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.";;Trata del uso de la AR para intervenir en el aprendizaje del vocabulario en personas con TEA;AR, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1088/1742-6596/1235/1/012104;Implementation of Augmented Reality in Pretend Play Therapy for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder;Autism Spectrum Disorder is a pervasive developmental disorder that will affect children in terms of interpersonal communication, social interaction, and imaginative levels in play. Many therapies to help the motor neuron performance is one of them Pretend Play. Pretend Play is a therapy that invites children in playing to demonstrate something else and tell how to use objects that are considered in the child's imagination. However, in the era of highly developed technology, many fields have used the Augmented Reality method as a visualization of various aspects. With this method researchers will present the therapeutic visualization of the block to 3D transportation tool that is useful for strengthening motor nerves and visual strength of the child. The system can run well during marker detection, marker movement, and 3D object display with the accuracy of precision angle and distance between virtual world with real world reach 100% with angle 0 at distance 31 cm and the maximum distance from the marker is 46 cm and the maximum angle is 30. © 2019 Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.;;Trata de mejorar el rendimiento de las neuronas motoras, mediante juegos de AR con herramientas 3D para los niños con TEA.;AR, TEA;;;AR,motion capture;0;AR;;;motion capture
10.1109/ICSSS.2019.8882831;Identification of Autism in MR Brain Images Using Deep Learning Networks;Autism is one of the brain developmental disorders. In this proposed work MR brain images are collected from Autism brain Imaging Data Exchange database which contains both normal as well as autistic images. Brain tissue like White matter, Gray matter and Cerebrospinal Fluid are segmented. These tissue are categorized by their intensity values with white matter having the highest intensity value. Cerebrospinal Fluid has the lowest intensity value. These tissue play a critical role in restorative determination and evaluating the likelihood of the imperfections. The Segmentation results shows that in autism image the concentration of white matter is more when compared to a normal image. Segmented as well as original images were fed to the Deep Neural network classifier to perform classification of Autism brain images. The classifier is run in a single GPU with 4Gb RAM processor environment. It is trained with 40 images and it takes 6 epochs to complete the validation process with an accuracy value of 82.61% is achieved. © 2019 IEEE.;;Trata de imágenes de imágenes cerebrales de personas con TEA y de personas DT segmentadas como las originales se introdujeron en un clasificador de Redes Neuronales Profundas;TEA;IA;;AR,MR;0;AR,MR;;;
10.1088/1742-6596/978/1/012040;Augmented reality social story for autism spectrum disorder;Augmented Reality is a technique that can bring social story therapy into virtual world to increase intrinsic motivation of children with Autism Spectrum Disorder(ASD). By looking at the behaviour of ASD who will be difficult to get the focus, the lack of sensory and motor nerves in the use of loads on the hands or other organs will be very distressing children with ASD in doing the right activities, and interpret and understand the social situation in determining a response appropriately. Required method to be able to apply social story on therapy of children with ASD that is implemented with Augmented Reality. The output resulting from this method is 3D animation (three-dimensional animation) of social story by detecting marker located in special book and some simple game which done by using leap motion controller which is useful in reading hand movement in real-time. © Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.;;Trata de aplicar historias sociales en la terapia de niños con TEA mediante Realidad Aumentada. El resultado de este método es una animación 3D de una historia social que se activa al detectar un marcador en un libro especial, junto con algunos juegos sencillos realizados mediante el controlador Leap Motion, el cual es útil para leer los movimientos de la mano en tiempo real;AR, TEA;GAME;;AR,motion capture;0;AR;;;motion capture
10.1007/978-3-319-92049-8_40;The utility of the virtual reality in autistic disorder treatment;Autistic disorder patients lack the social communication abilities and need interventional therapy to alleviate such symptoms. The cost of health care and treatment across the lifespan of patients were up to $3.2 million which places a crushing burden on the poor patients and their families. To relieve the symptoms of disease and reduce the financial pressure of the patients, many methods were proposed. The normal therapy is proceeding under the instruction of professional doctors in the hospital. Each person need to spend 6–8 h in the specialized institutions. Given the cost of treatment and time, the treatment could not carry out continually which could lead to reducing the curative effectiveness. The current study explores the utility of the virtual reality interventions to the autistic disorder patients. In the virtual environment, the patients could be receiving treatment continually and practice their social communication abilities in different social scenes. To generate immersive virtual social environment, a VR engine (Unity3D 5.0) were used. Some typical social communication scenes were also established which include the classroom, shopping mall and hospital. In these virtual scenes, the ASD patients were required to communicate with artificial intelligence (AI) players and finish some tasks. The coach which played by the researcher or expert would send appropriate instructions to help the patient when they encounter the difficulties. Two different statistic tables will be collected twice: one is before the training, the other one is after the training. The two checklists are Autism Behavior Scale (ABS) table and Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) table. By comparing the scores which achieved in different time, researchers could assess the result of treatment and changing the content of the treatment in time. Four ASD children who had confirmed ASD diagnoses from a clinical doctor take part in this experiment. Informed consent was obtained from the parents before participation. The average age of the subjects is 6 (±1). These volunteers were asked to execute nine tasks in different social scenes, which include communicate with strange teachers, sellers and doctors. All these tasks have three levels: in lv1, only one AI player in the scenes, in lv2, two AI players in scenes, in lv3, no less than three AI players will in the scenes. The patients in which scenes at which levels is controlled by researchers. According to the results, we find that after the training that the scores of the ASD patients are raised. Such results suggest that the VR technology could very helpful for the adjuvant therapy of the ASD. © Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.;;Trata de explora la utilidad de las intervenciones de realidad virtual (RV). Utilizando el motor Unity3D 5.0, se establecieron escenas sociales típicas como el aula, el centro comercial y el hospital. En estas escenas, los pacientes con TEA deben comunicarse con jugadores de Inteligencia Artificial (IA) y completar tareas, bajo la guía de un entrenador (investigador o experto);VR, TEA;IA;ojo con este;AR,playground,classroom,VR;0;VR,AR;classroom,playground;;
10.1007/978-3-319-92049-8_33;Design of an assistive avatar in improving eye gaze perception in children with ASD during virtual interaction;Children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) usually experience impairment in social interaction and often display reduced gaze sharing when interacting with another person. The lack of gaze sharing or joint attention early in the children’s developmental stage may create a delay in their ability to learn new things and share information with others. The presented study involved the design of a novel virtual reality (VR)-based training game with an avatar and eye tracker aimed to eventually address the joint attention impairment in children with ASD. The assistive avatar provides necessary cues and hints based on both the eye tracking data recorded by the VR system and the task performance of the participant. The system uses the task performance to adaptively change the difficulty level of the game. We believe that the training game will be able to improve participant’s gaze following skill. A usability study was carried out to validate the system design. The result showed that the system was feasible and able to obtain the expected gaze performance from the participants. The details of the system architecture and result of system validation are presented in this paper. © Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.;;Trata de involucrar el diseño de un juego de entrenamiento novedoso basado en realidad virtual (RV) con un avatar y seguimiento ocular (eye tracker) destinado a abordar el deterioro de la atención conjunta;VR, GAME, TEA;;eye;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1007/978-3-319-60366-7_20;Design of a Haptic Virtual System for Improving Fine Motor Skills in Children with Autism;Fine motor skills, including gripping, holding and reaching, are useful and necessary in fundamental daily activities. However, children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) show deficits and delays in fine motor skills compared to their peers. In this paper, we propose a virtual training system enabling the assessment and improvement of fine motor skills for children with ASD through haptic interaction in a low-cost and engaging virtual environment with real-time feedback (e.g., haptic, auditory and visual feedback). This system consists of a Haptic Gripper allowing users to manipulate (e.g., grip and move) virtual balls in the games and thus provides opportunities for users to improve finger and hand motor control. We present the system design, and a small usability study which verified the system functionality and indicated the potential of this system in improving fine motor skills of the users in move and grip manipulations. © 2018, Springer International Publishing AG.;;Trata de un sistema de entrenamiento virtual que permite la evaluación y mejora de las habilidades motoras finas para niños con TEA a través de la interacción háptica en un entorno virtual de bajo costo y atractivo con retroalimentación en tiempo real (por ejemplo, háptica, auditiva y visual;VR, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.5958/0974-360X.2017.00492.9;A review on computer and virtual based interventions for autistic children;Repetitive stereotypical behavior characterizes autistic individuals, lacking in social skills including communication and emotional understanding and loss of cognitive abilities in certain severe cases. To improve their life in the society, some therapeutic methods have been devised. Autistic children tend to get confused and disturbed when subjected to social interactions as there are too many aspects such as facial expressions, emotions, body language that they need to concentrate on and comprehend to have successful communication while technology interventions simplify the situation by providing a platform to assess each aspect separately. Furthermore, it allows a stepwise approach towards social interactions especially in the case of virtual reality environments and games. Methods/Analysis: Various feedback systems can be employed as part of the technology to understand the extent of receptivity of the child while they participate in the activity. Findings: The following paper discusses interventions for autistic children which are computer and virtual reality based and divided into the following sections: Eye tracking, eye contact, and facial expression detection, teaching using games, learning with peers, emotional understanding, rehabilitation, relearning and software application based therapy. © RJPT All right reserved.;;Trata de analiza intervenciones divididas en: seguimiento ocular (eye tracking), contacto visual, detección de expresiones faciales, enseñanza mediante juegos, aprendizaje con pares, comprensión emocional, rehabilitación y terapia basada en aplicaciones de software;VR, TEA;;;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1109/ICRoM.2017.8466148;Social Virtual Reality Robot (V2R): A Novel Concept for Education and Rehabilitation of Children with Autism;"In this paper, we have presented a novel virtual reality setup with the ability to teach music to children with autism as well as perform automatic assessment of their behaviors. This setup contains Social Virtual Reality Robots (V2Rs) and virtual musical instruments (i.e. xylophone and drum). After conducting a game-session pilot study, we observed that the acceptance rate of the virtual reality headset is about 65% among children with autism, while all of the typically developing children attending the session used the headset. Furthermore, using statistical analysis, it is indicated that the performance of children with autism in music assignments was significantly weaker than their typically developing peers; consequently, the designed V2R music-based game has the potential for autism screening. © 2017 IEEE.";;Trata sobre una novedosa configuración de realidad virtual con la capacidad de enseñar música a niños con autismo, así como realizar una evaluación automática de sus comportamientos.;VR, TEA;GAME;;VR;0;VR;;;
10.3389/fped.2017.00145;Feasibility of an autism-focused augmented reality smartglasses system for social communication and behavioral coaching;Background:Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a childhood-onset neurodevelopmental disorder with a rapidly rising prevalence, currently affecting 1 in 68 children, and over 3.5 million people in the United States. Current ASD interventions are primarily based on in-person behavioral therapies that are both costly and difficult to access. These interventions aim to address some of the fundamental deficits that clinically characterize ASD, including deficits in social communication, and the presence of stereotypies, and other autism-related behaviors. Current diagnostic and therapeutic approaches seldom rely on quantitative data measures of symptomatology, severity, or condition trajectory. Methods:Given the current situation, we report on the Brain Power System (BPS), a digital behavioral aid with quantitative data gathering and reporting features. The BPS includes customized smartglasses, providing targeted personalized coaching experiences through a family of gamified augmented-reality applications utilizing artificial intelligence. These applications provide children and adults with coaching for emotion recognition, face directed gaze, eye contact, and behavioral self-regulation. This preliminary case report, part of a larger set of upcoming research reports, explores the feasibility of the BPS to provide coaching in two boys with clinically diagnosed ASD, aged 8 and 9 years. Results:The coaching intervention was found to be well tolerated and rated as being both engaging and fun. Both males could easily use the system, and no technical problems were noted. During the intervention, caregivers reported improved non-verbal communication, eye contact, and social engagement during the intervention. Both boys demonstrated decreased symptoms of ASD, as measured by the aberrant behavior checklist at 24-h post-intervention. Specifically, both cases demonstrated improvements in irritability, lethargy, stereotypy, hyperactivity/non-compliance, and inappropriate speech. conclusion:Smartglasses using augmented reality may have an important future role in helping address the therapeutic needs of children with ASD. Quantitative data gathering from such sensor-rich systems may allow for digital phenotyping and the refinement of social communication constructs of the research domain criteria. This report provides evidence for the feasibility, usability, and tolerability of one such specialized smartglasses system. © 2017 Liu, Salisbury, Vahabzadeh and Sahin.;;Trata de presentarnos el Brain Power System (BPS), una ayuda conductual digital que utiliza smartglasses personalizadas para ofrecer experiencias de entrenamiento gamificadas mediante realidad aumentada e inteligencia artificial;AR, TEA;GAME, IA;ojo con este;AR,eye tracking;0;AR;;;eye tracking
10.7717/peerj.2899;Detecting communicative intent in a computerised test of joint attention;The successful navigation of social interactions depends on a range of cognitive faculties-including the ability to achieve joint attention with others to share in- formation and experiences. We investigated the influence that intention monitoring processes have on gaze-following response times during joint attention. We employed a virtual reality task in which 16 healthy adults engaged in a collaborative game with a virtual partner to locate a target in a visual array. In the Search task, the virtual partner was programmed to engage in non-communicative gaze shifts in search of the target, establish eye contact, and then display a communicative gaze shift to guide the participant to the target. In the NoSearch task, the virtual partner simply established eye contact and then made a single communicative gaze shift towards the target (i.e., there were no non-communicative gaze shifts in search of the target). Thus, only the Search task required participants to monitor their partner's communicative intent before responding to joint attention bids. We found that gaze following was significantly slower in the Search task than the NoSearch task. However, the same effect on response times was not observed when participants completed non-social control versions of the Search and NoSearch tasks, in which the avatar's gaze was replaced by arrow cues. These data demonstrate that the intention monitoring processes involved in differentiating communicative and non-communicative gaze shifts during the Search task had a measurable influence on subsequent joint attention behaviour. The empirical and methodological implications of these findings for the fields of autism and social neuroscience will be discussed. © 2017 Caruana et al.;;Trata de Investigar cómo los procesos de monitoreo de la intención influyen en los tiempos de respuesta al seguir la mirada durante la atención conjunta;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1145/3014033.3014041;Challenges and solutions of motion sensing games for autism education;Motion Sensing Game is a new attempt in autism education in Mainland China. Currently, it has a number of challenges in its practical application. For instance, motion sensing games are still in its infant stage with few educational rehabilitation and practical skills games available. Assessment function with such games is not common and generalization of the game based learning is difficult too. To solve these difficulties and to improve the efficiency of motion sensing game application, Suzhou Industrial Park Renai School has made several efforts by cooperating with enterprises, improving game design, enhancing the role of assessment, involving pivotal response training (PRT) in order to meeting all of the challenges.;;Trata de mejorar los juegos de detección del movimiento para niños autistas y justifica como la tecnología puede ser el vehículo para aplicar metodologías clínicas probadas;GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1007/s10803-016-2930-2;Reduced Mimicry to Virtual Reality Avatars in Autism Spectrum Disorder;Mimicry involves unconsciously copying the actions of others. Increasing evidence suggests that autistic people can copy the goal of an observed action but show differences in their mimicry. We investigated mimicry in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) within a two-dimensional virtual reality environment. Participants played an imitation game with a socially engaged avatar and socially disengaged avatar. Despite being told only to copy the goal of the observed action, autistic participants and matched neurotypical participants mimicked the kinematics of the avatars’ movements. However, autistic participants mimicked less. Social engagement did not modulate mimicry in either group. The results demonstrate the feasibility of using virtual reality to induce mimicry and suggest mimicry differences in ASD may also occur when interacting with avatars. © 2016, The Author(s).;;Trata de Investigar el mimetismo en el trastorno del espectro autista (TEA) dentro de un entorno de realidad virtual bidimensional;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,motion capture,VR;0;VR,AR;;;motion capture
10.7498/aps.65.108701;Sample entropy of electroencephalogram for children with autism based on virtual driving game;Autism spectrum disorder is a kind of mental disease which involves the disorders of the perception, emotion, memory, language, intelligence, thinking, action, etc. The aim of this paper is to investigate the brain activity characteristics of the children with autism during complex environments by analyzing electroencephalogram (EEG) signals from the neuroergonomics perspective. The virtual driving environment as a complex multi-task source is used to organically connect brain systems with human motion control. The 14-channel EEG signals are obtained including the EEG baseline signals on a resting state (about 3 min) and the EEG activity signals during driving (about 5 min). The method of the shift average sample entropy is proposed to deal with EEG signals in the resting and the virtual driving environments. Considering the highly complex hyper-dimensional characteristics of EEG signals, the different embedding dimensions (such as 2 and 6 dimensions) are analyzed in the sample entropy estimation. The results show that the average sample entropy values of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) subjects are lower than those of healthy subjects during resting and driving, respectively, especially in the prefrontal lobe, temporal lobe, parietal lobe and occipital lobe during resting and in temporal lobe and occipital lobe during driving. It indicates that ASD children lack the ability to adapt easily their behaviors. Meanwhile, like healthy subjects, the average sample entropy values of ASD subjects during driving are higher than those during resting as a whole. Moreover, the EEG activity signals of ASD are obviously higher than the EEG baseline signals in prefrontal lobe, frontal lobe, frontal central lobe and temporal lobe regions in 95% significant level. And for healthy subjects, the activity signals are significantly higher than the baseline signals only in parietal lobe region. Furthermore, the brain activities of ASD subjects during driving come closer to those of healthy subjects during resting. It suggests that the virtual driving environment may be helpful for the treatment of ASD individuals. In addition, the ASD and healthy subjects have a certain right hemisphere dominance in the whole region except in the parietal lobe region. In the parietal lobe region, they have some left hemisphere dominance, especially during driving. And for ASD subjects, there is the significant right hemisphere dominance in the temporal lobe in 95% confidence level no matter whether in the resting state or in the driving state. The results show that it is suitable for the shift average sample entropy analysis to study the brain activities of ASD individuals. This study will provide a new research method for the further research on the mechanism of autism and its diagnosis, evaluation and intervention. © 2016 Chinese Physical Society.;;Trata de investiga las características de la actividad cerebral en niños con autismo durante entornos complejos analizando señales de electroencefalograma (EEG) desde una perspectiva de neuroergonomía;GAME, TEA;;;AR,EEG;0;AR;;;EEG
10.1109/CoG57401.2023.10333176;;Autistic individuals commonly experience visuomotor integration (VMI) difficulties that impact upper extremity movements such as goal-directed throwing, which commonly exists in everyday activities and movement-based games. Autistic individuals often show superior ability towards visual details and inefficient global visual information processing, leading to incongruent VMI. Virtual reality (VR) provides adequate and accurate eye and hand movement data and allows readily individualized design, making it a good option for VMI assessment and potential game-based VMI intervention for autistic individuals. We conducted a pilot study with eight non-autistic young adults comparing visual-proprioceptive accuracy and VMI in VR and in an equivalent physical environment (PE) using a spatial estimation task and a goal-directed throwing task. We observed reduced visual and visual-proprioceptive accuracy in VR compared to PE. Success rates of throwing were lower in VR, with more gaze scanning of the environment and shorter fixation duration on task-relevant objects. Participants spent a longer time preparing for movement execution and had higher hand velocity at release in VR. Subsequent research will compare visual-proprioceptive accuracy and VMI between VR and PE in autistic individuals and explore their relationship with autistic traits.;;Trata de investigar realizando un estudio piloto con ocho adultos jóvenes no autistas comparando la precisión visual-propioceptiva y la VMI en RV y en un entorno físico equivalente (PE;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,motion capture,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking,motion capture
10.1109/CVR55417.2022.9967646;;"The aim of the study is to measure the effectiveness of training children and adolescents with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) by using Virtual Reality (VR). The process is formulated as a game visualizing one of the daily life skills; shopping skills. It allows the user to select the products needed and pay for it, using a Head Mounted Display (HMD) and Leap Motion sensor for more immersion and realistic experience, to help them live more independent life. An existing cafeteria was modeled to be the training environment in virtual reality, and to have a pre and post assessment for results measure. Study participants were 11 children and adolescents recruited with certain criteria.";;Trata de medir la efectividad del entrenamiento de niños y adolescentes con Trastorno del Espectro Autista (TEA) mediante el uso de Realidad Virtual (RV);VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/FIE44824.2020.9273818;;In this work-in-progress research we exploited and investigated a virtual reality (VR) based, flexibility learning environment (FLE) in which adolescents with autism use, customize, and design an assortment of simulation games that represent and exemplify the application of forces and Newton's laws of motion. The simulation/game modeling and making tasks acted as the primers of practicing and assessing representational flexibility in solving the engineering design problems with computational thinking. The participants' participation behaviors and verbal utterances during the intervention sessions have been archived via screen and webcam recordings. The current study findings indicated that two approaches of speech or text data mining, multi-label classification and similarity index, can act as the in-situ performance assessment methods to evaluate the representational flexibility development for engineering design and computational thinking of a heterogeneous learner group.;;Trata de explorar e investigar un Entorno de Aprendizaje de Flexibilidad (FLE) basado en Realidad Virtual (RV), en el cual adolescentes con autismo utilizan, personalizan y diseñan una variedad de juegos de simulación que representan y ejemplifican la aplicación de las fuerzas y las leyes del movimiento de Newton;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,playground,VR;0;VR,AR;playground;;
10.1109/I2CT61223.2024.10543652;;This research paper explores the efficacy of a virtual reality (VR) environment in enhancing learning outcomes for children with autism through a game-based approach. The study uses VR technology to create a more immersive and tailored educational experience for autistic children. The implications of this study are substantial, as they introduce a new and comprehensive approach to education for autistic children. The findings on the synergy between VR technology and personalized learning offer insights into how these components contribute to improved learning outcomes and increased engagement. As VR technology progresses, this research examines how VR can be effectively utilized as an inclusive educational strategy for children with autism.;;Trata de una investigación que explora la eficacia de un entorno de realidad virtual (RV) para mejorar los resultados de aprendizaje en niños con autismo a través de un enfoque basado en el juego;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/I4C57141.2022.10057738;;As there is no medical test to detect some of the particular needs, there is much work to be done when it comes to caring for special children who have neuro-developmental disorders. Learning difficulties and poor social skills are special needs children's main problems. They are unable to converse like people in the physical world do. They can learn skills more effectively by using an augmented reality or augmented world to build these skills. It lessens the dread of close relationships. They employ virtual and augmented reality to hone their talents and as a platform for phobia therapy. Through the stimulation of augmented reality, these technologies provide children with straightforward techniques that help them become aware of and accepting of the real physical world. The understanding of concepts is enhanced when Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) are used in the teaching of special needs children. The stimulation of the real world and its objects, as opposed to learning from outdated or domestic teaching methods, can improve the experience of learning, understanding, and applying the knowledge or discipline gained from a process in the real world without the fear of being incorrect and by reducing the margin for error. This results in a child to have a regular life and a good education. In this work we have created an application using unity, vuforia, C#, android studio. Audio implemented in this app helps the children to learn the scenarios in English and Kannada. This app helps the parents and care taker to teach social behaviour to special children.;;Trata de disminuir el temor de niños con trastornos a las relaciones cercanas. Emplean la Realidad Virtual (RV) y la Realidad Aumentada (RA) como plataformas para la terapia de fobias y para adquirir técnicas que les ayuden a aceptar el mundo físico real;VR, AR;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/ICCCNT56998.2023.10308029;;Joint Attention (JA) is a major deficit in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Providing an early intervention is crucial as a lack of JA ability affects social communication skills in adult life. With the advent of technology, there has been a lot of development in JA skill training using computers and mixed-reality devices. Augmented Reality (AR) is increasingly being used for healthcare applications due to its ability to provide an interactive and engaging user experience. Currently there has been little exploration of AR as a medium for JA skill training. To address this problem, we have developed an AR based JA training platform using Microsoft Hololens 2 Head Mounted Display (HMD) with an inbuilt eye-tracker. This platform aims to gamify the process of JA skill training. It uses only gaze fixations for interaction, allowing users to practice their gaze-sharing and visual communication abilities. The user’s performance is recorded based on the correctness of their gaze response and the duration to register a valid gaze response. To determine the effectiveness of our platform and its feasibility for delivering JA skill training, we have performed a pilot study involving 4 ASD and 4 age-matched neurotypical developing (NT) children. Observations from this feasibility study shows participants diagnosed with ASD took significantly more time to follow a JA cue and register a response as compared to their NT counterparts. This study also shows the acceptance of the AR based JA platform by both the ASD and NT participants to perform JA exercises and provides insights to further develop this platform.;;Trata de una plataforma de entrenamiento de Atención Conjunto en niños con TEA basada en Realidad Aumentada (RA) utilizando el visor Microsoft HoloLens 2 con un seguidor ocular integrado.;AR, TEA;;;AR,eye tracking;0;AR;;;eye tracking
10.1109/ICIVC61627.2024.10837236;;Recent advances in machine learning have significantly impacted medical applications, particularly for autism. Virtual Reality (VR) provides a controlled environment for social interaction interventions in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). However, these environments pose challenges due to the high demands for data transfer and processing. This study investigates the integration of edge computing with machine learning to effectively and accurately identify ASD behavioral characteristics in VR settings, particularly under limited network bandwidth conditions. We present an optimized distributed algorithm designed to reduce the time and energy required for ASD interventions. Our experiments show that this approach not only improves communication efficiency but also maintains the accuracy of the model, surpassing the performance of existing methods.;;Trata de investigar la integración de Edge Computing con el aprendizaje automático para identificar de manera efectiva y precisa las características conductuales del TEA en entornos de RV, especialmente bajo condiciones de ancho de banda de red limitado;VR, TEA, IA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1109/ICoICT61617.2024.10698567;;An intervention that applies Virtual Reality (VR) in Social Story (SS) is designed to train autistic children to minimize adaptation stress among autistic children transitioning to new educational environments. Challenges in social communication and difficulties during transitions are identified. Typically, autistic children of school age have adaptation issues due to communication barriers, atypical behaviors within the school environment, and an insufficient awareness of autism among their peers. The SS is designed to reduce autistic children's emotions in the adaptation. However, the manual creation of a social story by parents using the traditional method is time-consuming involving the related image collection, possible narrative creation, etc. Implementing VR in SS enhances social story creation effectiveness and gains autistic children's attention. In this paper, three social stories are designed to address this issue. The possible scenarios are presented to familiarize children before attending the actual school in real life such as appropriate learning behaviors in a class, and the proper way of making new friends. The immersive experience, facilitated by Google Cardboard Goggles, aims to captivate children. Additionally, the customization feature is provided for the parents to customize the background setting in the classroom for heightening the immersion of autistic children, enhancing virtual school realism, and reducing parental SS personalization burdens. The results of the intervention's performance will be verified using common assessment tools in the field of autism, namely the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS-2), the Behavior Assessment System for Children (BASC-3), and the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS-2).;;Trata de una una intervención que aplica Realidad Virtual (RV) en Historias Sociales (SS) para entrenar a niños autistas y minimizar el estrés de adaptación al transicionar a nuevos entornos educativos;VR, TEA;;;AR,classroom,VR;0;VR,AR;classroom;;
10.1109/ICRoM.2017.8466148;;"In this paper, we have presented a novel virtual reality setup with the ability to teach music to children with autism as well as perform automatic assessment of their behaviors. This setup contains Social Virtual Reality Robots (V2Rs) and virtual musical instruments (i.e. xylophone and drum). After conducting a game-session pilot study, we observed that the acceptance rate of the virtual reality headset is about 65% among children with autism, while all of the typically developing children attending the session used the headset. Furthermore, using statistical analysis, it is indicated that the performance of children with autism in music assignments was significantly weaker than their typically developing peers; consequently, the designed V2R music-based game has the potential for autism screening.";;Trata de una novedosa configuración de realidad virtual con la capacidad de enseñar música a niños con autismo, así como realizar una evaluación automática de sus comportamientos;VR, TEA;GAME;;VR;0;VR;;;
10.1109/ICRoM64545.2024.10903545;;Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition that impacts various aspects of life, including motor skills, social interactions, and communication, with symptoms that differ widely among individuals. Early diagnosis is critical, especially in young children, as timely intervention can significantly improve outcomes. This paper presents a novel approach utilizing a music-based virtual reality (VR) game to assist therapists in differentiating children with ASD from their typically developing (TD) peers. A classification model was trained using data collected from 21 TD children and 9 children with ASD, focusing on their actions and movements within the game. The model achieved an accuracy of 93% and a sensitivity of 85%, showcasing the potential of VR games in advancing ASD/TD classification and autism screening.;;Trata un enfoque novedoso que utiliza un juego de realidad virtual (RV) basado en la música para ayudar a los terapeutas a diferenciar a los niños con TEA de sus pares con desarrollo típico (TD).;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,motion capture,VR;0;VR,AR;;;motion capture
10.1109/ICSSS.2019.8882831;;Autism is one of the brain developmental disorders. In this proposed work MR brain images are collected from Autism brain Imaging Data Exchange database which contains both normal as well as autistic images. Brain tissue like White matter, Gray matter and Cerebrospinal Fluid are segmented. These tissue are categorized by their intensity values with white matter having the highest intensity value. Cerebrospinal Fluid has the lowest intensity value. These tissue play a critical role in restorative determination and evaluating the likelihood of the imperfections. The Segmentation results shows that in autism image the concentration of white matter is more when compared to a normal image. Segmented as well as original images were fed to the Deep Neural network classifier to perform classification of Autism brain images. The classifier is run in a single GPU with 4Gb RAM processor environment. It is trained with 40 images and it takes 6 epochs to complete the validation process with an accuracy value of 82.61% is achieved.;;Trata de recolectan imágenes de RM cerebral de la base de datos Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE), que contiene imágenes tanto normales como autistas. Se segmentaron tejidos cerebrales como la Materia Blanca (WM), la Materia Gris (GM) y el Líquido Cefalorraquídeo (CSF).;TEA;;;AR,MR;0;AR,MR;;;
10.1109/TLT.2024.3451462;;Numerous children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) exhibit abnormal eye gaze pattern in communication and social interaction. In this study, we aim to investigate the effectiveness of the hide-and-seek virtual reality system (HSVRS) in improving gaze fixation abilities in children with ASD. Our hypothesis is that engaging in a hide-and-seek game within a virtual environment, particularly with a customized avatar resembling a familiar figure, would significantly enhance gaze fixation skills compared to traditional interventions without supplementary virtual reality (VR) intervention. In total, 36 children with ASD were involved in this pilot study in three groups: the avatar customized group, the avatar uncustomized group, and the control group. The control group only received human intervention, while the avatar group received additional VR-assisted interventions. The effect of HSVRS was measured by a six-point Likert subjective questionnaire and demonstrated significant improvements in gaze fixation abilities in the VR-assisted intervention groups compared to the control group ($P$ = 0.006, 0.001). Moreover, the avatar customized group, which interacted with a familiar-looking avatar, obtained noticeable increments in gaze fixation metrics ($P$ = 0.036, 0.005, 0.001). Experimental results show the effectiveness of utilizing VR technology to complement regular interventions in terms of improving gaze fixation abilities for young children with ASD.;;Trata de investiga la eficacia del Sistema de Realidad Virtual de Escondite (HSVRS) para mejorar las capacidades de fijación de la mirada de niños con TEA;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1109/TNSRE.2021.3108351;;Many children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) exhibit atypical gaze behaviors related to joint attention, a fundamental social-communication skill. Specifically, children with ASD show differences in the skills of gaze sharing and gaze following. In this work we present a novel virtual reality (VR)-based system, called InViRS, in which children with ASD play games allowing them to practice gaze sharing and gaze following. InViRS has three main design contributions: (i) a closed-loop joint attention paradigm with real-time tracking of the participant's eye gaze and game performance measures, (ii) an assistive feedback mechanism that provides guidance and hints in real time, and (iii) a controller that adaptively changes the avatar's gaze prompts according to the performance measures. Results from a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of InViRS with 9 autistic1 children and 9 typically developing (TD) children offered preliminary support for the feasibility of successful gameplay as well as positive impacts on the targeted skills of gaze sharing and gaze following.;;Trata de un sistema novedoso basado en Realidad Virtual (RV) llamado InViRS, en el cual los niños con TEA practican estas habilidades. InViRS tiene tres contribuciones de diseño principales: (i) un paradigma de atención conjunta de bucle cerrado con seguimiento ocular en tiempo real y medidas de rendimiento, (ii) un mecanismo de retroalimentación asistida que proporciona guías y pistas en tiempo real, y (iii) un controlador que cambia adaptativamente las señales de la mirada del avatar según el rendimiento;VR, TEA;GAME;;AR,eye tracking,VR;0;VR,AR;;;eye tracking
10.1109/UEMCON62879.2024.10754723;;"Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) often experience delays in motor skills, which can substantially affect their future motor function. The Movement Assessment Battery for Children - Second Edition (MABC-2) is a widely used tool in evaluating children’s motor skills across different age bands, specifically assessing children ages 3 to 16. It includes eight unique tasks per age band that measure fine and gross motor skills and balance, which explains a child’s motor abilities and classifies them by groups. This study extends previous research by exploring the potential of Virtual Reality (VR) to make the MABC-2 tasks more engaging and interactive for children, which could lead to better outcomes. The previous research created the balance and gross motor tasks of the MABC-2 in VR. We refined those tasks and completed the remaining ones. The VR tool was tested on seven individuals aged 19 to 21. Pre- and post-VR MABC-2 scores were collected and analyzed. Most tasks were accurately replicated in VR; however, significant statistical differences were found in the Threading Lace (p= 0.003) and Catching Ball (p = 0.007) tasks, indicating further refinement. Machine learning analysis was also conducted on data from 268 previous MABC-2 scores of children diagnosed with autism to classify them into motor skill proficiency zones based on their scores and to determine the most influential features for accurate prediction. The analysis revealed that balance scores were particularly influential in determining motor proficiency. This indicates the importance of balance in interventions to improve overall motor proficiency.";;Trata de Refinar las tareas de equilibrio y motricidad gruesa de niños con TEA previamente creadas y completamos las restantes en RV;VR, TEA, IA;;;AR,motion capture,VR;0;VR,AR;;;motion capture
10.1016/j.ijcci.2024.100683.;Improved socio-emotional skills in students with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) following an intervention supported by an augmented gamified environment,;This study examines the impact of an intervention using an Augmented Gamified Environment (AGE) to stimulate socio-emotional skills in a sample of 54 subjects with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) aged between 3 and 17 years old. The study used a quantitative, exploratory, analytical methodology. Socio-emotional skills were evaluated before and after intervention (pre-posttest) using the DiagnosticApp instrument, supported by a fun app. The study specifically analyzed their ability to identify primary and secondary emotions and emotional states, as well as the cause-effect relationship linked to a context. The results show that socio-emotional skills improved after the intervention, regardless of gender, age, degree of ASD, comorbidity, or type of language. Overall, the greatest improvement was in identifying both primary and secondary emotions through recognizing facial expressions. Additionally, as expected, older students, and those with less severe ASD and more functional language exhibited higher scores in their socio-emotional skills. In conclusion, the extrinsic motivation associated with the mix of game mechanics, dynamics, and aesthetics, along with the augmented reality resources making up the AGE, are key contributing elements in improving these students’ socio-emotional skills.;;Trata de examinar el impacto de una intervención utilizando un Entorno Gamificado Aumentado (AGE) para estimular habilidades socioemocionales en una muestra pequeña de niós con TEA;GAME, TEA;AR;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1016/B978-0-12-822271-3.00006-2.;Chapter 11 - Fine motor skills and cognitive development using virtual reality-based games in children,;Fine motor skills are an integral part of everyday activities. Children with neurological disorders, such as cerebral palsy and autism spectrum disorder, have problems with fine motor skills, social interaction, and communication. Such children need to repeat a skill to acquire it. Therapy is needed so that children can develop important life skills and be involved in academic activities. However, children need to undergo long sessions of therapy, which will be tedious for them. Physical therapy can therefore be made interactive and motivating by the use of virtual reality-based games. In this chapter, a virtual reality-based serious gaming platform is proposed for fine motor skills and cognitive development of children with special needs. The Unity3D-based virtual reality environment together with a Leap Motion Controller is used to design the rehabilitation games. The Leap Motion Controller with its gesture recognition ability can provide a cohesive platform to improve the life skills of special needs children. The proposed games are developed in such a way that they improve the pincer grasp, intellectual reasoning, and hand–eye coordination of children. More colorful and fun virtual reality games are developed to keep the children engaged for longer. The developed platform is cost effective, remotely accessible, personalized, and physically less painful. The proposed virtual reality game can also be used as an auxiliary tool along with traditional rehabilitation methods.;;Trata de una plataforma de juegos serios basada en Realidad Virtual para el desarrollo motor fino y cognitivo de niños con trastornos neurológicos;VR;GAME, TEA;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1016/j.ijhcs.2021.102734.;Design of a toolkit for real-time executive function assessment in custom-made virtual experiences and interventions,;Virtual Reality (VR) and other game-like experiences are popular intervention platforms in neurocognitive rehabilitation research. Executive Functions (EF), the cognitive processes that regulate attention and goal-oriented action, are recognized as a domain of concern in several congenital and acquired neurocognitive conditions (e.g.: ADHD, autism, addiction, cognitive decline, traumatic brain injury, and stroke). VR-based simulations of real-world tasks have shown potential for rehabilitation in independent functioning. The custom nature of such projects makes cross-intervention analysis difficult and complicates development of best-practices. We have designed a toolkit for building virtual interactions that can consistently replicate traditional cognitive tests (such as the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task and Multitasking Task) as well as extend to more complex tasks in any virtual context. Analysis of participant performance data between traditional tasks and these VR replications may indicate the toolkit can successfully replicate traditional measures while also extending into more complex contexts.;;Trata de un toolkit (conjunto de herramientas) para construir interacciones virtuales que puedan replicar consistentemente pruebas cognitivas tradicionales (como la Prueba de Clasificación de Tarjetas de Wisconsin y la Tarea de Multitarea) y extenderse a contextos más complejos;VR;TEA;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1016/j.humov.2024.103254.;Characterization of bilateral reaching development using augmented reality games,;Bilateral coordination is commonly impaired in neurodevelopmental conditions including cerebral palsy, developmental coordination disorder, and autism spectrum disorder. However, we lack objective clinical assessments that can quantify bilateral coordination in a clinically feasible manner and determine age-based norms to identify impairments. The objective of this study was to use augmented reality and computer vision to characterize bilateral reaching abilities in typically developing children. Typically developing children (n = 133) ages 6–17 years completed symmetric and asymmetric bilateral reaching tasks in an augmented reality game environment. We analyzed the number of target pairs they could reach in 50 s as well as the time lag between their hands reaching the targets. We found that performance on both tasks developed in parallel, with development slowing but not plateauing after age 12. Children performed better on the symmetric task than asymmetric, both in targets reached and with shorter hand lags. Variability between children in hand lag decreased with age. We also found gender differences with females outperforming males, which were most pronounced in the 10–11 year olds. Overall, this study demonstrates parallel development through childhood and adolescence of symmetric and asymmetric reaching abilities. Furthermore, it demonstrates the ability to quantify bilateral coordination using computer vision and augmented reality, which can be applied to assess clinical populations.;;Trata de utilizar Realidad Aumentada (RA) y Visión por Computadora para caracterizar las habilidades de alcance bilateral en niños con desarrollo típico;AR;GAME, TEA;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1016/j.rh.2023.100820.;Estrategias de intervención motora sobre el control postural en niños y jóvenes con trastorno del espectro autista: una revisión sistemática,;"Resumen
El trastorno del espectro autista (TEA) posee características variadas con un impacto a nivel social, comunicativo y sensoriomotor (SM). Una característica SM son los problemas sobre el control postural (CP). Variadas son las estrategias de intervención motora (EIM), pero el beneficio sobre el CP es algo que se ha analizado de forma menos amplia. El objetivo fue describir las EIM y sus resultados sobre el CP de niños y adolescentes con TEA. Se realizó una búsqueda en PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science y Cochrane. Un total de ocho artículos cumplieron con los criterios de elegibilidad. Todas las EIM mostraron resultados beneficiosos sobre el mejoramiento del CP y fueron de diferente naturaleza (práctica de bailes, actividad física personalizada, videojuegos, Tai Chi Chuan, Taekwondo y realidad virtual). Es necesario mejorar los diseños y considerar los riesgos de sesgos, pues limitan el alcance de los resultados.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has varied characteristics with an impact at the social, communicative and sensorimotor (SM) level. An SM feature is postural control (PC) problems. There are various motor intervention strategies (MIS), but the benefit over LC is something that has been analyzed less extensively. The objective was to describe the MIS and its results on the PC of children and adolescents with ASD. A search of PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science and Cochrane was performed. A total of eight articles met the eligibility criteria. All MIS showed beneficial results on the improvement of PC. The MIS were of a varied nature (dance practice, personalized physical activity, video games, Tai Chi Chuan, Taekwondo and virtual reality). It is necessary to improve the designs and consider the risks of bias, since they limit the scope of the results.";;Estrategias de intervención motora sobre el control postural en niños y jóvenes con trastorno del espectro autista: una revisión sistemática,;TEA;VR;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1016/j.ifacol.2024.11.079.;Exploring Virtual Reality Avatars: Assessing Basic Emotion Representations for Mental Health Applications,;The importance of digitalization is increasing fast and has also found its way into medicine and therapeutic applications. Serious Games represent a category of interactive digital or analog games that can be used for this purpose. The use of new technologies such as virtual reality (VR) or virtual characters like avatars can have a supportive effect especially for people who perceive social interactions as challenging, which often occurs for people with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Therefore, a study was conducted to evaluate three different types of avatars as well as their representation of the six basic emotions and a neutral category. Overall, 14 men and 9 women (M = 34.09 years old) participated in the study. The results show that the representation of the basic emotions was assessed significantly different for the different avatar types. Furthermore, differences regarding how well the target emotions were met were shown. Overall, the study results can help to identify suitable types of avatars to include it into future emotion-related scenarios of social interaction. Keywords: Avatars, Basic emotions, Evaluation, Mental health, Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD).;;Trata de evaluar tres tipos diferente de avatares y su representación de las seis emociones básicas más una categroía Neutra;VR;GAME, TEA;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1016/j.ijhcs.2023.103032.;FaceMe: An agent-based social game using augmented reality for the emotional development of children with autism spectrum disorder,;Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) experience impaired emotional development, which severely affects their social communication. Although some assistive technologies are effective in helping children with ASD to improve their social skills, they are generally considered to be unable to engage children in real-world social situations. This paper presents “FaceMe,” which is a virtual agent social game based on an augmented reality (AR) technology that supports children's emotional development. FaceMe uses a virtual agent, a set of tangible toolkits, and multilevel game mechanics to teach children about basic facial expressions in social scenarios and improve their emotional and communication skills. Empirical results show that the FaceMe virtual agent evoked active social behaviors in children with ASD who subsequently improved their ability to understand facial expressions. The FaceMe design guidelines for creating the virtual agent in the context of AR are presented, which opens up an interesting domain for future games using AR to support children's learning.;;Trata de un juego social con un agente virtual basado en tecnología de Realidad Aumentada (AR) para los problemas de comunicación social de niños con TEA;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.2196/51719.;Co-Design of a Virtual Reality Multiplayer Adventure Game for Adolescents With Autism Spectrum Disorder: Mixed Methods Study,;"Background
Virtual reality (VR) adventure games can offer ideal technological solutions for training social skills in adolescents with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), leveraging their support for multisensory and multiplayer interactions over distance, which may lower barriers to training access and increase user motivation. However, the design of VR-based game environments for social skills training is still understudied and deserves the deployment of an inclusive design approach to ensure its acceptability by target users.
Objective
We aimed to present the inclusive design process that we had followed to develop the Zentastic VR adventure game to foster social skills training in adolescents with ASD and to investigate its feasibility as a training environment for adolescents.
Methods
The VR game supports multiplayer training sessions involving small groups of adolescents and their therapists, who act as facilitators. Adolescents with ASD and their therapists were involved in the design and in an explorative acceptability study of an initial prototype of the gaming environment, as well as in a later feasibility multisession evaluation of the VR game final release.
Results
The feasibility study demonstrated good acceptability of the VR game by adolescents and an enhancement of their social skills from baseline to posttraining.
Conclusions
The findings provide preliminary evidence of the benefits that VR-based games can bring to the training of adolescents with ASD and, potentially, other neurodevelopmental disorders.";;Trata de un proceso de diseño inclusivo del juego de aventuras Zentastic VR, diseñado para fomentar el entrenamiento de habilidades sociales de adolescentes con TEA;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.2196/games.8428.;Virtual Travel Training for Autism Spectrum Disorder: Proof-of-Concept Interventional Study,;"Background
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impairments in social interaction and repetitive patterns of behavior, which can lead to deficits in adaptive behavior. In this study, a serious game was developed to train individuals with ASD for an important type of outdoor activity, which is the use of buses as a means of transportation.
Objective
The aim of this study was to develop a serious game that defines a “safe environment” where the players became familiar with the process of taking a bus and to validate if it could be used effectively to teach bus-taking routines and adaptive procedures to individuals with ASD.
Methods
In the game, players were placed in a three-dimensional city and were submitted to a set of tasks that involved taking buses to reach specific destinations. Participants with ASD (n=10) underwent between 1 to 3 training sessions. Participants with typical development (n=10) were also included in this study for comparison purposes and received 1 control session.
Results
We found a statistically significant increase in the measures of knowledge of the process of riding a bus, a reduction in the electrodermal activity (a metric of anxiety) measured inside the bus environments, and a high success rate of their application within the game (93.8%).
Conclusions
The developed game proved to be potentially useful in the context of emerging immersive virtual reality technologies, of which use in therapies and serious games is still in its infancy. Our findings suggest that serious games, using these technologies, can be used effectively in helping people with ASD become more independent in outdoor activities, specifically regarding the use of buses for transportation.";;Trata de un juego serio para entrenar a individuos con TEA en una actividad al aire libre crucial: el uso del autobús como medio de transporte;TEA;VR, GAME;;AR,outdoor,VR;0;VR,AR;outdoor;;
10.1145/3665463.3678823;Foldiverse: Augmenting Paper Folding Physiotherapy for Children with Autism via Family-Centered Mixed Reality Design;Therapy involving paper folding-based fine motor activities has proven effective for children with autism. However, the lack of professional special education training makes it challenging for parents to create suitable guided activities that motivate their children during home sessions. To address this, we introduce Foldiverse, an AR game-based solution. Providing paper folding tutorials and real-time interactive feedback, it transforms paper folding into an interactive virtual life. The gamification approach stimulates children’s interest and enables parents to easily accompany the training at home. User experiments have shown that Foldiverse significantly increases children’s engagement and anticipation, providing a more gamified and family-inclusive training method for autism rehabilitation.;;Trata de presentamos Foldiverse, una solución basada en juegos de RA para la terapia de actividades de motricidad fina de niños con autismo;AR,GAME, TEA;;;AR,playground;0;AR;playground;;
10.1145/3572921.3572923;Opportunities for Serious Game Technologies to Engage Children with Autism in a Pakistani Sociocultural and Institutional Context: An investigation of the design space for serious game technologies to enhance engagement of children with autism and to facilitate external support provided;Usability and design of serious game technologies have been widely investigated as academic interventions tools for children with autism. However, besides the technology, the sociocultural and institutional context also impacts the gameplay activities of children with autism as well as the external support provided by instructors. Therefore, this paper investigates i) the impact of sociocultural and institutional context over the engagement of children with autism with serious game technologies, ii) the types of external support children with autism are offered or require during gameplay session, and iii) the type of rewards and encouragers that can act as unbiased support to increase the engagement of the children with autism during gameplay.This paper investigates these factors with an inductive analysis of educational gameplay activities of 23 children with autism in Lahore, Pakistan. Our study found that sociocultural and institutional context has substantial impact over the gameplay activities of children with autism. Children required both physical and verbal support during the gameplay activities, and institutional context influences the behavior of instructors as well. Finally, dynamic animations, rewards and encouragers can keep the children engaged for longer in the gameplay.;;Trata de investiga: i) el impacto del contexto sociocultural sobre el compromiso (engagement) de los niños, ii) los tipos de apoyo externo (físico y verbal) que requieren durante el juego, y iii) los tipos de recompensas y motivadores que actúan como apoyo imparcial;GAME, TEA;;;AR,rewards;0;AR;;rewards;
10.1145/3649902.3653008;Effects of Visual Cluttering in Virtual Reality on Visuomotor Integration in Autistic Individuals;Goal-directed throwing is ubiquitous in virtual reality (VR) games, demanding spatial and temporal accuracy to perceive position and motion, as well as to plan, and execute movement. Autistic individuals often show superior local visual sensitivity, which may paradoxically delay global visual processing, leading to incongruent visuomotor integration (VMI). Understanding VMI in VR and exploring supportive designs are vital for enhancing accessibility. We assessed VMI in VR with different levels of visual cluttering with autistic (n = 10) and non-autistic (n = 10) adults using overhand throwing with eye and hand tracking, comparing VR to identical physical environments and VR to visually simplified VR. In VR, all participants exhibited decreased throwing accuracy, increased visual scanning, and prolonged hand preparation phases. These differences were more significant in autistic individuals. However, our study highlighted an important effect: simplifying visual information in VR throwing resulted in autistic individuals outperforming non-autistic peers.;;"Trata de evaluar la VMI en RV con diferentes niveles de ""ruido visual"" (cluttering) en adultos autistas ($n = 10$) y no autistas ($n = 10$) mediante lanzamientos por encima del hombro con seguimiento ocular y manual";VR, TEA;;;AR,motion capture,VR;0;VR,AR;;;motion capture
10.1145/3401895.3401930;A serious game to support learning and minimize the social isolation of children with autism;People with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) have characteristics described as the disability to relate to others, communication disorders, and obsessive concern about what is unchanging. In this sense, this paper aims to present an application for mobile devices, in a serious game format, whose purpose is to aid the teaching-learning process of autistic children, also seeking to reduce their isolation tendencies. Also, it shows both ontologies, and the Multiagent System integrated into the application. The validation occurred with autism specialists through questionnaires. The results indicate that the proposed application presents great potential to reach its objectives.;;Trata de aplicación para dispositivos móviles en formato de juego serio, cuyo propósito es ayudar al proceso de enseñanza-aprendizaje de niños autistas y reducir sus tendencias de aislamiento;GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3474349.3480216;FaceMe: An Augmented Reality Social Agent Game for Facilitating Children's Learning about Emotional Expressions;Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) experience dysfunctional emotional development leading to negative effects on their social communication. Although interventions are effective in helping children with ASD improve their social skills over time, they have been found to lack the essential ability to engage children in a real social environment. In this paper, we present “FaceMe,” which is an augmented reality (AR) system that uses a virtual agent and a set of tangible toolkits to teach children with ASD about six basic emotions and improve their emotional and communication skills. On the basis of the pilot data, the results suggest that children, especially those with ASD, were willing to socialize with the virtual agent and understand more emotional states. It is hoped that FaceMe can be used as a tool to provide assistance to children with ASD, as well as a way for future interface system design to support emotional development in children.;;"Trata de presentamos ""FaceMe"", un sistema de Realidad Aumentada (RA) que utiliza un agente virtual y un conjunto de herramientas tangibles (tangible toolkits) para enseñar a los niños con TEA las seis emociones básicas y mejorar sus habilidades emocionales y de comunicación";AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3695652.3695658;Critical Analysis on the Design and Development of an E-Learning System for Autism Spectrum Disorder Intervention through Gamified Augmented Reality and Emotion-Recognition;In the Philippines the state of care for those with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is affected by factors such as upfront cost, the availability of care staff and care resources, and the limited integration of technology. Individuals with ASD often have trouble reliably identifying emotions in social situations, a known trait that has inspired much research into relevant assistive technologies. Many technologies have been proposed to aid in improving the condition of those with ASD via various means. This paper discusses a system which aims to use computer vision integrated with Augmented Reality (AR) to develop a novel assistive application. This application's purpose is to aid care professionals working with individuals with ASD through a system that can recognize facial expressions, output a reading on said emotion, and then display that output in a real-time AR display.;;Trata de presenta un sistema que utiliza visión por computadora integrada con Realidad Aumentada (AR) para desarrollar una aplicación asistiva innovadora. El propósito es ayudar a los profesionales que trabajan con individuos con TEA mediante un sistema que puede reconocer expresiones faciales, generar una lectura de dicha emoción y mostrar ese resultado en una pantalla de AR en tiempo real;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3395035.3425188;Bodily Expression of Social Initiation Behaviors in ASC and non-ASC children: Mixed Reality vs. LEGO Game Play;"This study is part of a larger project that showed the potential of our mixed reality (MR) system in fostering social initiation behaviors in children with Autism Spectrum Condition (ASC). We compared it to a typical social intervention strategy based on construction tools, where both mediated a face-to-face dyadic play session between an ASC child and a non-ASC child. In this study, our first goal is to show that an MR platform can be utilized to alter the nonverbal body behavior between ASC and non-ASC during social interaction as much as a traditional therapy setting (LEGO). A second goal is to show how these body cues differ between ASC and non-ASC children during social initiation in these two platforms. We present our first analysis of the body cues generated under two conditions in a repeated-measures design. Body cue measurements were obtained through skeleton information and characterized in the form of spatio-temporal features from both subjects individually (e.g. distances between joints and velocities of joints), and interpersonally (e.g. proximity and visual focus of attention). We used machine learning techniques to analyze the visual data of eighteen trials of ASC and non-ASC dyads. Our experiments showed that: (i) there were differences between ASC and non-ASC bodily expressions, both at individual and interpersonal level, in LEGO and in the MR system during social initiation; (ii) the number of features indicating differences between ASC and non-ASC in terms of nonverbal behavior during initiation were higher in the MR system as compared to LEGO; and (iii) computational models evaluated with combination of these different features enabled the recognition of social initiation type (ASC or non-ASC) from body features in LEGO and in MR settings. We did not observe significant differences between the evaluated models in terms of performance for LEGO and MR environments. This might be interpreted as the MR system encouraging similar nonverbal behaviors in children, perhaps more similar than the LEGO environment, as the performance scores in the MR setting are lower as compared to the LEGO setting. These results demonstrate the potential benefits of full body interaction and MR settings for children with ASC.";;Trata de demostró el potencial de nuestro sistema de Realidad Mixta (RM) para fomentar conductas de iniciación social en niños con Condición del Espectro Autista (CEA/ASC);GAME, TEA, IA;RM;ojo con este;AR,MR,playground;0;AR,MR;playground;;
10.1145/3626485.3626529;Students with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder and Utilizing Virtual Reality to Improve Driving Skills;Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a developmental disability that affects both adolescents and adults in the current time. With driving being a staple part of the American lifestyle, it is clear that such disabilities can inhibit the progress for one’s journey of learning to drive a motor vehicle. Relevant research and studies suggest that there is a correlation between an increased number of driving citations and people with ADHD, along with evidence of moderate driving issues within sample groups of people with ADHD. With virtual reality (VR) becoming a principal technology of the modern world, perhaps its uses can extend to benefiting those with developmental disabilities such as ADHD. Through the creation of a driving simulation, users can use VR technology to practice the necessary skills needed to drive, without the risk of physical injury to themselves or others. with the purpose to aid the learning experience of those with ADHD, the simulation can be designed with specific features present to help them maintain focus on the important details needed for practicing safe driving.;;Trata de beneficiar a personas con TDAH. A través de una simulación de conducción, los usuarios pueden practicar las habilidades necesarias sin riesgo de lesiones físicas;VR;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1145/3014033.3014039;Virtual reality enhanced pink dolphin game for children with ASD;Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder with different levels of severity. Although the exact causes of ASD is not yet known, nor is there a medical cure for ASD to date, special facilities and schools have been established to help individuals coping better and becoming more independent. With the advancement in Virtual Reality (VR) technology, there has been a greater depth of development of technology-enhanced game-based learning for children with ASD. This paper will describe our effort to design VR enabled pink dolphins game assisting children with ASD in their learning, at the same time, to avoid the use of physical pink dolphins which is a species endangered for animal assisted intervention. In particular, we will discuss the benefits of this VR technology enhanced and game based learning for children to follow direction, give direction and do hand-eye coordination.;;Trata de diseñar un juego de delfines rosados habilitado para RV, que asiste a los niños TEA en su aprendizaje y evita el uso de delfines físicos, una especie en peligro de extinción, en las intervenciones asistidas por animales;VR, GAME, TEA;;;AR,VR;0;VR,AR;;;
10.1145/3702163.3702415;Game Theory Teaching Strategy to Improve Social Skills for Children with Autism;Children with autism often suffer from social difficulties, impaired verbal communication, repetitive behaviors, and poor emotional control. However, these symptoms can be alleviated to some extent with timely intervention. Current studies have placed children with autism as another normal person or observer for social interaction training. Autistic children encounter difficulties in mentalizing during these trainings. Still, few studies have provided solutions for children with autism when they face interactions with people that create mentalizing difficulties. This study utilizes game theory to address the issue of mentalization in children with autism. It integrates targeted social activities with game rules and concept maps, and develops augmented reality game software to create a social skill training system. The simulation experiment results present that the game theory teaching strategy proposed in this study can teach children with ASD to make self-interested decisions when competing with people in the real world.;;Trata de utilizra la Teoría de Juegos para abordar las dificultades sociales, comunicación verbal alterada y falta de control emocional de niños TEA, integrando actividades sociales con reglas de juego y mapas conceptuales, desarrollando un software de Realidad Aumentada (AR);GAME, TEA;AR;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3487606;INC-Hg: An Intelligent Collaborative Haptic-Gripper Virtual Reality System;Collaborative Virtual Environments (CVE) have shown potential to be an effective social skill training platform for children with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) to learn and practice collaborative and communication skills through peer interactions. However, most existing CVE systems require that appropriately matched partners be available at the same time to promote interaction, which limits their applicability to some community settings due to scheduling constraints. A second shortcoming of these more naturalistic peer-based designs is the intensive resources required to manually code the unrestricted conversations that occurred during the peer-based interactions. To preserve the benefits of CVE-based platforms and mitigate some of the resource limitations related to peer availability, we developed an Intelligent Collaborative Haptic-Gripper System (INC-Hg). This system provides an intelligent agent partner who can understand, communicate, and haptically interact with the user, without requiring the presence of another human peer. The INC-Hg operates in real time and thus is able to perform collaborative training tasks at any time and at the user's pace. INC-Hg can also record the real-time data regarding spoken language and task performance, thereby greatly reducing the resource burden of communication and interaction performance analysis. A preliminary usability study with 10 participants with ASD (ages 8–12 years) indicated that the system could classify the participant's utterances into five classes with an accuracy of 70.34\%, which suggested the potential of INC-Hg to automatically recognize and analyze conversational content. The results also indicated high accuracies of the agent to initiate a conversation (97.56\%) and respond to the participants (86.52\%), suggesting the capability of the agent to conduct proper conversations with the participants. Compared to the results of human-to-human collaborative tasks, the human-to-agent mode achieved higher average collaborative operation ratio (61\% compared to 40\%) and comparable average frequencies for Initiations and Responses among the participants with ASD. These results offer preliminary support as well as areas of improvement regarding the agent's ability to respond to participants, work with participants to complete tasks, engage in back-and-forth conversations, and support the potential of the agent to be a useful partner for individuals with ASD completing CVE tasks.;;Trata de proporciona un compañero agente inteligente capaz de comprender, comunicarse e interactuar hápticamente con el usuario sin necesidad de un par humano;VR, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3699738;EMooly: Supporting Autistic Children in Collaborative Social-Emotional Learning with Caregiver Participation through Interactive AI-infused and AR Activities;Children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have social-emotional deficits that lead to difficulties in recognizing emotions as well as understanding and responding to social interactions. This study presents EMooly, a tablet game that actively involves caregivers and leverages augmented reality (AR) and generative AI (GenAI) to enhance social-emotional learning for autistic children. Through a year of collaborative effort with five domain experts, we developed EMooly that engages children through personalized social stories, interactive and fun activities, and enhanced caregiver participation, focusing on emotion understanding and facial expression recognition. Compared with a baseline, a controlled study with 24 autistic children and their caregivers showed EMooly significantly improved children's emotion recognition skills and its novel features were preferred and appreciated. EMooly demonstrates the potential of AI and AR in enhancing social-emotional development for autistic children via prompt personalizing and engagement, and highlights the importance of caregiver involvement for optimal learning outcomes.;;Trata de presenta EMooly, un juego para tablet que involucra activamente a los cuidadores y aprovecha la Realidad Aumentada (AR) y la IA Generativa (GenAI) para mejorar el aprendizaje socioemocional de niños con TEA;AR, TEA, IA;GAME;;AR,playground;0;AR;playground;;
10.1145/3586183.3606755;Starrypia: An AR Gamified Music Adjuvant Treatment Application for Children with Autism Based on Combined Therapy;In this paper, we present Starrypia, a lightweight gamified music adjuvant treatment application to improve the symptoms of mild autistic children, eliminating the geographical and time constraints faced by traditional treatment. Adopting ABA (Applied Behavior Analysis) behavioral theory as the principle, Starrypia follows the stimulus-response-reinforcement-pause process and incorporates music therapy and sensory integration. Based on AR, Starrypia provides multi-sensory intervention through music generated by BiLSTM deep model, 3D visual scenes, touch interaction to keep children focused and calm. We conducted a controlled experiment on 20 children to test Starrypia’s effectiveness and attraction. Children’s pre-test and post-test scores on two autism rating scales and performance during the test were applied to measure their abilities and engagement. Experimental results indicated that children showed great interest in Starrypia and presented evident symptom remission and advance in overall abilities after 4 weeks of use. In conclusion, Starrypia is practicable in both therapeutic effect and user experience, and conspicuously instrumental in promoting sensory ability.;;Trata de Presentamos Starrypia, una aplicación ligera de tratamiento adyuvante musical gamificado para mejorar los síntomas de niños con autismo leve, eliminando las restricciones geográficas y temporales del tratamiento tradicional;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3544548.3580721;Interactive AR Applications for Nonspeaking Autistic People? - A Usability Study;About one-third of autistic people are nonspeaking, and most are never provided access to an effective alternative to speech. Thoughtfully designed AR applications could provide members of this population with structured learning opportunities, including training on skills that underlie alternative forms of communication. A fundamental step toward creating such opportunities, however, is to investigate nonspeaking autistic people’s ability to tolerate a head-mounted AR device and to interact with virtual objects. We present the first study to examine the usability of an interactive AR-based application by this population. We recruited 17 nonspeaking autistic subjects to play a HoloLens 2 game we developed that involved holographic animations and buttons. Almost all subjects tolerated the device long enough to begin the game, and most completed increasingly challenging tasks that involved pressing holographic buttons. Based on the results, we discuss best practice design and process recommendations. Our findings contradict prevailing assumptions about nonspeaking autistic people and thus open up exciting possibilities for AR-based solutions for this understudied and underserved population.;;Trata de examina la usabilidad de una aplicación de RA interactiva en personas con TEA con problemas de habla;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3744464.3744497;AI-Driven Gamified Intervention Models for Autism Education Across Developmental Stages;This article studies the application of artificial intelligence-assisted gamification therapy in children with autism spectrum disorder of different ages. The autism spectrum disorder mentioned here is what we commonly refer to as ASD children. This research combines gamification and artificial intelligence technology to provide children with personalized learning materials to improve their skills in language, social interaction and emotion. These projects will offer personalized advice to children with autism, plan learning paths suitable for them, and provide timely feedback to help them solve specific problems they encounter. This approach also designs courses based on different development stages and creates some sensory stimulating activities for children who haven't started to speak yet. Design tools that can help vocabulary development for children who are just beginning to learn languages, and design communication exercises for children with stronger learning abilities. The results of the experiment show that the children have made remarkable improvements in terms of participation, language skills, and social emotional behaviors. Artificial intelligence has potential in supporting children with autism, and it can also be seen that artificial intelligence methods play a crucial role in autism education.;;Trata de estudia la aplicación de la terapia de gamificación asistida por IA en niños con TEA de diferentes edades. La investigación combina el juego con la IA para proporcionar materiales de aprendizaje personalizados que mejoran las habilidades lingüísticas, sociales y emocionales;GAME, TEA, IA;;;AR,playground;0;AR;playground;;
10.1145/3369199.3369212;An AR Puzzle Application for Improving Emotion Recognition for AS Children;Affecting to around 1\% of the population, Autism is sometimes described as a different approach to interacting with the world. Adapting the surrounding objects and systems can improve their experience and their relative's. This project is based on previous research where it has been shown that toys can influence positively in a child's development. Also, new technologies as Augmented Reality (AR) can be beneficial for these children in attracting and keeping their attention. The proposed game would engage the player by first creating a customized monster with the help of different AR markers. In a second stage, the player would try to guess the emotion of different monsters or virtual humans. The game will be tested in further stages to check its suitability for the AS children and the effect on their emotion recognition skills.;;Trata de en investigaciones previas que demuestran que los juguetes influyen positivamente en el desarrollo infantil de niños con TEA;AR, GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3699749;Smartphone Haptics Can Uncover Differences in Touch Interactions Between ASD and Neurotypicals;Utilizing touch interactions from smartphones for gathering data and identifying digital markers for screening and monitoring neurological disorders, such as Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), is an emerging area of research. Smartphones provide multiple benefits for this kind of study, including unobtrusive data collection via built-in sensors, integrated haptic feedback systems, and the capability to create specialized applications. Acknowledging the significant yet understudied presence of tactile processing differences in individuals with ASD, we designed and developed Feel and Touch, a mobile game that leverages the haptic capabilities of smartphones. This game provides vibrotactile feedback in response to touch interactions and collects data on these interactions. We conducted a deployment study with 83 Mexican children who played Feel and Touch to capture their interactions with the game. Our analysis, comparing touch interactions between children with ASD and neurotypical (NT) peers, uncovered three digital markers based on phone tilt and touch patterns that distinguish the two groups. Additionally, we demonstrated the ability of a machine learning model to accurately classify these interactions between ASD and NT children. Our findings discuss the implications in terms of accessibility and ubiquity, as well as the possibilities for the development of digital markers and their application in pervasive computing for healthcare.;;"Trata de Reconociendo las diferencias en el procesamiento táctil de las personas con TEA, desarrollamos ""Feel and Touch"", un juego móvil que aprovecha las capacidades hápticas del teléfono";GAME, TEA, IA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3430524.3440646;“Can you help me move this over there?”: training children with ASD to joint action through tangible interaction and virtual agent;New technologies for autism focus on the training of either social skills or motor skills, but not both. Such a dichotomy omits a wide range of joint action tasks that require the coordination of two persons (e.g. moving a heavy furniture). The training of these physical tasks performed in dyad has great potential to foster inclusiveness while having an impact on both social and motor skills. In this paper, we present the design of a tangible and virtual interactive system for the training of children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) in performing joint actions. The proposed system is composed of a virtual character projected onto a surface on which a tangible object is magnetized: both the user and the virtual character hold the object, thus simulating a joint action. We report and discuss preliminary results of a field training study, which shows the potential of the interactive system.;;Trata presentamos el diseño de un sistema interactivo tangible y virtual para el entrenamiento de niños con Trastorno del Espectro Autista (TEA) en la ejecución de acciones conjuntas.;VR,TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3014033.3014041;Challenges and solutions of motion sensing games for autism education;Motion Sensing Game is a new attempt in autism education in Mainland China. Currently, it has a number of challenges in its practical application. For instance, motion sensing games are still in its infant stage with few educational rehabilitation and practical skills games available. Assessment function with such games is not common and generalization of the game based learning is difficult too. To solve these difficulties and to improve the efficiency of motion sensing game application, Suzhou Industrial Park Renai School has made several efforts by cooperating with enterprises, improving game design, enhancing the role of assessment, involving pivotal response training (PRT) in order to meeting all of the challenges.;;Trata de enfocarse en la rehabilitación educativa de niños con Tea mediante juegos de detección de movimiento;GAME, TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3340631.3394867;Recommending Video Games to Adults with Autism Spectrum Disorder for Social-Skill Enhancement;Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a long-standing mental condition characterized by hindered mental growth and development and is a lifelong disability for the majority of affected individuals. In 2018, 2-3\% of children in the USA have been diagnosed with autism. As these children move to adulthood, they have difficulty in developing a well-functioning motor skill. Some of these abnormalities, however, can be gradually improved if they are treated appropriately during their adulthood. Studies have shown that people with ASD enjoy playing video games. Educational games, however, have been primarily developed for children with ASD, which are too primitive for adults with ASD. We have developed a gaming and personalized recommender system that suggests therapeutic games to adults with ASD which can improve their social-interactive skills. The gaming system maintains the entertainment value of the games to ensure that adults are interested in playing them, whereas the recommender system suggests appropriate games for adults with ASD to play. The effectiveness and merit of our gaming and recommender system is backed up by an empirical study.;;Trata de desarrollar un sistema de juego y recomendación personalizada que sugiere juegos terapéuticos para adultos con TEA con el fin de mejorar sus habilidades socio-interactivas;TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3383923.3383954;Validation of Emotions as a Measure of Selective Attention in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder;This research studied the validation of emotions as a measure of selective attention in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and their typically developing (TD) peers. Seven basic emotions such as anger, sadness, disgust, joy, surprise, fear and contempt as well as neutral emotion of participants were detected in real-time using iMotions and affectiva software. This study investigated these emotions against task performance. The result shows no significant difference in emotion between the two groups except in neutral and contempt. Also, the result revealed that there was no significant correlation between the seven basic emotions and selective attention in ASD and TD group. However, neutral emotion has a significant correlation on selective attention only in children with ASD and the group differs in neutral and contempt emotions. Thus, this study suggests that the seven basic emotions have no effect on selective attention in children with ASD and TD. Further studies need to investigate the low-level facial activity that represents neutral and contempt emotions.;;Trata de un estudio de la validación de las emociones como medida de la atención selectiva en niños con TEA y sus pares con desarrollo típico (TD);TEA;;;AR;0;AR;;;
10.1145/3459608;C-Hg: A Collaborative Haptic-Gripper Fine Motor Skill Training System for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder;Computer-assisted systems can provide efficient and engaging ASD intervention environments for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). However, most existing computer-assisted systems target only one skill deficit (e.g., social conversation skills) and ignore the importance of other areas, such as motor skills, that could also impact social interaction. This focus on a single domain may hinder the generalizability of learned skills to real-world scenarios, because the targeted teaching strategies do not reflect that real-world tasks often involve more than one skill domain. The work presented in this article seeks to bridge this gap by developing a Collaborative Haptic-gripper virtual skill training system (C-Hg). This system includes individual and collaborative games that provide opportunities for simultaneously practicing both fine motor skills (hand movement and grip control skills) as well as social skills (communication and collaboration) and investigating how they relate to each other. We conducted a usability study with 10 children with ASD and 10 Typically Developing (TD) children (8–12 years), who used C-Hg to play a series of individual and collaborative games requiring differing levels of motor and communication skill. Results revealed that participant performance significantly improved in both individual and collaborative fine motor skill training tasks, including significant improvements in collaborative manipulations between partners. Participants with ASD were found to conduct more collaborative manipulations and initiate more conversations with their partners in the post collaborative tasks, suggesting more active collaboration and communication of participants with ASD in the collaborative tasks. Results support the potential of our C-Hg system for simultaneously improving fine motor and social skills, with implications for impacts of improved fine motor skills on social outcomes.;;Trata de el sistema C-Hg (Colaborativo de Pinza Háptica), que incluye juegos individuales y colaborativos para practicar simultáneamente habilidades motoras finas (movimiento manual y control de agarre) y habilidades sociales (comunicación y colaboración);TEA;GAME;;AR,motion capture;0;AR;;;motion capture
10.1145/3429630.3429635;Recognizing Situational Color and Facial Emotions through Children's Interactive Games;"Through gaming, children could recognize facial expression, color, emotion and situation. Thus, we thoughtfully integrate Scratch programming into game so that children could inter-react with others while playing together in the game. Compared with normal, autism (ASD) have cognitive impairments in social and facial emotions. In this paper, we illustrate how children (from age 7 to 11 old) grouping by every three members and play Makey Makey game; and after releasing them with situation narratives, children dress on specified emotion color costumes, follow the rule of the game, play the games, and then take post-test. We use the Positive Technological Development (PTD) to analyze those data collected. And the outcomes of this research are listed as the followings: There is a positive association between color and emotion, children could identify facial emotion and color appropriately, such as yellow for happy (joy), purple for unhappy (sad) and black for horrible (fear). Moreover, there are improvements of children's social collaboration and body movement. Furthermore, the design of this game help people to detect whether a child is lack of social maturity and facial emotion detection instantly and effectively.";;Trata de Integramos la programación en Scratch para que los niños con autismo (quienes presentan deficiencias cognitivas en emociones sociales y faciales) puedan interactuar con otros;GAME, TEA;;;AR,motion capture;0;AR;;;motion capture
10.1145/3107925;Process Measures of Dyadic Collaborative Interaction for Social Skills Intervention in Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders;Technology-based social skills interventions have shown promise for people with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impairments in social interaction and communication. Primary advantages of a technology-based approach to intervention relate to consistency of service delivery as well as an ability to quantitatively measure process and outcomes. Despite these strengths, however, many current computer-supported systems rely on survey data or data collected post-interaction. In response, we have developed and pilot-tested DOSE (Dyad-Operated Social Encouragement), a novel game and data acquisition platform for collaborative skills intervention that leverages the ability of software to collect time-series, speech audio, and event information for the purposes of finer-grained analyses of dyadic interactions. A pilot study involving 12 participant dyads—comprised of children with ASD and typically developing (TD) peers (6 ASD-TD dyads and 6 TD-TD dyads)—was conducted and several metrics were computed during interactions. Preliminary results suggest that the DOSE system is engaging to users, is capable of collecting a wide range of quantitative process measures, and that post-training measures show preliminary evidence of increased communication and activity coordination. Furthermore, DOSE has been made open-source, allowing other investigators to use and extend DOSE for a variety of applications.;;Trata de DOSE (Dyad-Operated Social Encouragement), un juego novedoso y una plataforma de adquisición de datos para la intervención en habilidades colaborativas. DOSE aprovecha la capacidad del software para recopilar series temporales, audio del habla e información de eventos, permitiendo análisis detallados de las interacciones diádicas;TEA;GAME;;AR;0;AR;;;
